Where's Mr. Bergstrom?
That life is worth living.
Mr. Bergstrom! Mr. Bergstrom!
Do you know where I could find him?
The train, how like him... traditional, yet environmentally sound.
I see he touched you, too.
Mr. Bergstrom! Hey, Mr. Bergstrom!
Hey, Lisa, indeed.
Oh, I mean, were you just going to leave, just like that?
You can't go! You're the best teacher I'll ever have.
Oh, please.
But I need you too.
I, I understand. Mr. Bergstrom, I'm going to miss you.
Thank you, Mr. Bergstrom.
So, I guess this is it? It you don't mind I'll just run alongside the train as it speeds you from my life?
Nothing.
Mr. Bergstrom left today.
He's gone. Forever.
I didn't think you'd understand.
I'm glad I'm not crying because I would hate for you to think that what I'm about to say is based on emotion. But you, sir, are a baboon!
Yes, you! Baboon, baboon, baboon, baboon!
Baboon!
No!
Look, if you just want me to forgive you --
Yeah.
You're so silly.
I don't have any banana.
I'm sorry I called you a baboon, Dad.
But Mom, I want to hear the witty banter of sophisticated adults.
That music always sends a chill down my spine.
Mom! You wouldn't dare.
Bart, Grampa's a kindly old man who trusts us. Are you sure it's right to take advantage of him?
Half a gallon of chocolate.
Half a gallon of chocolate brownie fudge.
Half a gallon of chocolate, chocolate, chocolate, chocolate chip.
Grampa, what a question?
Sprinkles and syrup.
It's no use kidding myself. I'm having an ethical crisis.
Yes. Ten please.
Isn't it obvious? We've degraded ourselves and set back the children's rights movement for decades to come.
It's called remorse, you vile burlesque of irrepressible youth.
You grab a bucket and a brush and clean harder and faster than you ever have before.
How's your marriage?
Way to go, Grampa.
Hurry, Mom! If we don't get to the convention soon, all the good comics will be gone.
I think it's sad that you equate friendliness from wimpiness, and I hope it will keep you from ever achieving true popularity.
Hey, they do look alike!
Perhaps he realized how hollow the pursuit of money is, and took his own life.
He's no wittier than the next superhero.
I stand corrected.
Too bad we didn't come dressed as popular cartoon characters.
Yeah, Mom! Guess what? For a dollar a man sold me thirty-five Caspers and a dozen Lois Lanes.
She means you should get a job, stupid.
How's it going, Bart?
Maybe you need to play on their sympathies more. Lets see...
Ah ha, now you look pathetic.
Maggie, look. What's that?
Lee-mur. Lee-mur.
Zee-boo. Zee-boo.
I'm trying to teach Maggie that nature doesn't end with the barnyard. I want her to have all the advantages that I didn't have.
It's like an ox, only it has a hump and a dewlap. Hump and dew-lap. Hump and dew-lap.
You know his blood type, how romantic.
Oh, yeah? What's my shoe size?
Ring.
Yes, Dad.
Ooh, look, Maggie, what is that? Do-dec-ah-edron. Dodecahedron.
That's okay, Bart. Nobody really believed it. We were just trying to scare you.
Wait, Dad, he's smiling.
It's to open the crate, stupid.
No, Maggie. Not Az-tec. Ol-mec. Ol-mec.
Perhaps there is no moral to this story.
Bart... Bart... Hey, Bart.
No, no. He's fine.
Bart, my birthday is in two days. I'm gonna be eight years old. It's a big number -- almost double digits.
Bart, will you please let me pour my little heart out?
Bart, I do so much for you and yet you have disappointed me on every one of my birthdays. I've made things for you. But you've lost or broken them in hours... but, okay, we'll forget all...
Oh, thank you.
Well, all right -- if you listen to the poem I just wrote.
Meditations on turning eight, by Lisa Simpson. I had a cat named Snowball -- She died, she died! Mom said she was sleeping -- She lied, she lied! Why oh why is my cat dead? Couldn't that Chrysler hit me, instead? I had a hamster named Snuffy -- He died, --
Bart, in the split second before he died, I bet Scratchy appreciated his birthday present. You see how this relates to us?
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ME / HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ME / HAPPY BIRTHDAY, OVERLOOKED MIDDLE CHILD -- HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ME.
Bart, the entire town is howling for your blood, and before I join them I have one question: Today is my birthday -- you promised to get me something, and... and I'm afraid to ask.
I thought so. Oh, Bart, you...
Dear Bart, I am using the stationery Mom and Dad gave me for my birthday to inform you that we are now brother and sister in name only. Perhaps if a professional so advises, I will give you a hug at some far distant family reunion, but rest assured it will be purely for show.
Although I am aware you are looking at me, I would look exactly the same even if you weren't.
Huh... wha-- Bart, it's six a.m.
Oh! This is the best present I ever got. Thank you, Bart. Thank you Michael.
Bye, bye, Leon / Bye, roomie / Bye, Pardner / You're a credit to Dementia!
I don't think real checks have exclamation points.
Daaad!
Where did you get the idea for this, Mom?
Wait, Dad!
Hm. An essay contest. "Children under twelve"... "Three hundred words"... "Fiercely pro-American." Sounds interesting.
What would Ben Franklin say if he were alive today? He'd say... oh, think of a better opening.
Not very well.
Yes!
Yes, Mom.
Okay, America. Inspire me.
Wow, a bald eagle.
Hmm...
Thanks for driving me to the contest, Dad.
When America was born on that hot July day in 1776, the trees in Springfield Forest were tiny saplings, trembling towards the sun. And as they were nourished by Mother Earth, so too did our fledgling nation find strength in the simple ideals of equality and justice. Who would have thought such mighty oaks, or such a powerful nation, could grow out of something so fragile... so pure. Thank you.
Okay.
Bart! There's no such thing as first bedsies. You just made that up.
Iiiiiii Waaaaaannt... That one.
Why? What's wrong with it?
No, really, what?
What did you do to it?
MOMMM!
Have either of you ever run into any problems because of your superior ability?
Ah, me too!
Barbara Bush.
Hello, sir.
Only two. I checked.
Mom?
I'm too excited to sleep. Anyone up for the Winifred Beecher Howe Memorial?
An early crusader for women's rights. She led the Floormop Rebellion of 1910. Later she appeared on the highly unpopular 75 cent piece.
Okay, but you don't know what you're missing.
"I will iron your sheets when you iron out the inequities in your labor laws." Amen, sister.
How could I read my essay now? I don't believe my own words.
Honest Abe. He'll show me the way.
Mr. Lincoln, I...
Mr. Lincoln, my name is Lisa Simpson, and I have a problem.
Mr. Jefferson, my name is Lisa Simpson, and I have a problem.
Sorry, sir. It's just that...
Uh, maybe I should be going. I caught you at a bad time.
The truth must be told.
I would like to read a different essay, if I may.
"The city of Washington was built on a stagnant swamp some 200 years ago, and very little has changed. It stank then, and it stinks now. Only today, it is the fetid stench of corruption that hangs in the air."
"And who did I see taking a bribe, but the "Honorable" Bob Arnold. But don't worry, Congressman, I'm sure you can buy all the votes you need with your dirty money. And this will be one nation, under the dollar, with liberty and justice for none."
I'm sorry, Dad. I couldn't think of a nice way to say America stinks.
I can't believe it! The system works.
Bart!
The Flanders are having a beef-a-thon! Incredible Ned-ibles! Maude-acious vittles!.
Dad, do you know what Schadenfreude is?
It's the German term for "shameful joy" -- taking pleasure in the suffering of others.
Sour grapes.
Hey, quit it, Bart. Quit it! Hey, quit it, quit it, quit it! M-o-o-o-m!
You change it.
Okay, okay.
But Bart --
I'm sure you did nothing to discourage this, you scavenger of human misery.
Hey!!
You give that back. That belongs to me! That's mine!
Hey, stop that.
Not any more. You punks are about to get a taste of your own medicine. This is my brother... and he knows Karate.
Yeah, just keep laughing, it only makes him madder. Come on, Bart, start them off with the touch of death and go from there.
It's funny how two wrongs sometimes make a right.
What are you so happy about?
No one wants your stupid police badge, Bart.
I'm gonna eat EIGHT pieces of chocolate.
I think this is something Bart would really have enjoyed. But it's the only way he'll learn.
Bart, is your boss a crook?
Dad, I think this paper is a flimsy hodgepodge of pie graphs, factoids and Larry King.
Bart, that's so sweet. May I see the card?
Hey there ten-year old. I couldn't afford to get you a new drum...
...so how about a nice pair of bongos? Ewww.
Bart, you're not laughing. Too subtle?
A role model in my very own home. How convenient.
Maybe you ate a clove.
How Zen.
Looking at you with quiet awe.
I will, Mr. Gumbel. But if you'll excuse me, I'm profiling my dad for the school paper. I thought it would be neat to follow him around for a day to see what makes him tick.
Uh, excuse me, I have the chocolate milk.
He's just a little nervous. He has to give a speech tomorrow on "How To Keep Cool In A Crisis."
Our dad... now he belongs to the ages.
No, Dad, Krusty is our guest. Your pratfalls and Punchinello antics aren't necessary here.
Why don't we let our guest do it?
No, Dad, that's Hebrew. Krusty must be Jewish.
Dad, There are many prominent Jewish entertainers including Lauren Bacall, Dinah Shore, William Shatner, and Mel Brooks.
Poor Krusty, he's like a black velvet painting come to life.
Come on...
Krusty, please continue.
That is so sad.
A man who envies our family is a man who needs help.
Let's move.
No, no. We're not converting, we just want to find a Rabbi Krustofsky.
I didn't know that.
Oh yeah, it's all the kids talk about on Monday at school.
I bet the rabbi misses Krusty.
Excuse us, Rabbi Krustofsky?
Bart, we're gonna have to out smart him.
Bart, we've been going about this all wrong. What's the one thing rabbis prize above everything else?
No Bart. Knowledge.
We're gonna hit him where it hurts. Right in the Judaica.
This looks good Bart. Take it to him.
Not quite. I got some dynamite stuff from Rabbi Simon ben Eleazar.
Here you go, Bart. It's a long shot, but, that's all I can do without learning ancient Hebrew.
Bart! I am not gonna learn ancient Hebrew.
There, there, Rabbi. It's not too late.
I didn't select this costume for mobility. I wore it to salute the noble native American of the Pacific Northwests...
YAHHH!
Oh yeah, three bad nightmares.
Dad, that's Monaco.
No, Bart. Peace on Earth.
Peace on Earth.
Peace on Earth.
Peace on Earth.
Peace on Earth.
Oh, no! Maggie made a wish!
Yaaayyy!!
I wish for world peace.
I had a bad dream. Could I sleep in your bed?
Bart... Bart...
I'll give you a candy necklace.
Thanks, Bart.
Morning.
Mom! Dad!
Can we sleep with you?
Hey, here's a good job, Dad. Oh wait, you have to know how to operate a ultrasonic lithotryptor.
Mom, what's wrong?
Whayda ya know, she's right.
Don't forget dad, tonight my class is having an all you can eat spaghetti dinner.
Dad, I'm calling about the school talent show.
No. Dad, I broke my last saxophone reed, and I need you to get me a new one.
I called her. She's not home. I also tried Mr. Flanders, Aunt Patty, Aunt Selma, Dr. Hibbert, Reverend Lovejoy and that nice man who caught the snake in our basement.
Mom, where is he? If I don't get that reed I'll sound terrible.
It's not my fault. It's the reed.
I'm done.
I'm sorry dad, I don't feel much like eating.
I forgive you.
No. I didn't.
I love you, Dad!
Snowball II... Santa's Little Helper... this is Princess. Please don't exclude her because she's different.
Dad, no!
Dad, I think Princess belongs in a stable.
Father, you've made me the happiest girl who ever lived.
Wait, Dad, I've got something for you.
You're so beautiful.
Oh look. You haven't touched your salt lick. Num num, good salt lick.
This next song is also about a girl and her pony. It's called "Wildfire."
I just called to say I love you, Dad.
What's wrong with Dad?
No.
You're gonna make me give up Princess?
All the years I've lobbied to be treated like an adult has blown up in my face.
She likes a little carrot after her oats. And she really likes it when you scratch her behind the ear. And if you're playing the radio, she likes contemporary adult in the morning and easy listening at night. Please take good care of my Princess.
I'll never forget you.
Dad, you don't have to do this.
Dad, I understand the sacrifice you've made for me. That's why I gave up the pony.
Hmmm hmmm. There's a big dumb animal I love even more than that horse.
I mean you, you dummy.
Giddyup, Dad.
Yes.
Everything.
Uh... take us to the video store.
But, Dad, I can't find "Happy Little Elves in Tinkly Winkly Town".
Dad, can you take me to Dr. Hibbert's office?
Oh, nothing. I just scheduled a tetanus booster. Maybe I'm being a little anal, but barefoot season's coming up and there's a world of rusty nails out there.
You should smell his room.
That looks like an Olympic torch to me. Your husband could be an Olympic athlete who will go on to have a great acting career.
The wax never lies.
You're telling who?
Come here, Maggie.
Mom, instead of milk for dinner, can I have a "Virgin Moe?"
When Bart's done, can we moe to the moevies? There's a moetinee.
Well, it's a country in Europe --
One of the economic powers of the world--
No. Because they're efficient and punctual, with a strong work ethic.
I made a new bar of soap by squeezing all our little soap slivers together.
My jump rope broke, but I just tied it back together.
Is anything wrong?
What?
Is Mom gonna have another baby, Dad?
Did you hear that Maggie? Another baby in the house.
Doesn't Mom do that stuff?
It's not our fault our generation has short attention spans, Dad. We watch an appalling amount of TV.
Dad, if the new baby is a girl, can we name her Ariel?
Ariel.
Ariel.
Ariel.
That is so sad.
Dad, can I have some money to buy Bart a birthday present?
Dad, this is a hundred and ten dollars.
Quit it, Dad!
I dreamed I was married to Corey, and we lived on a pony farm...and Corey was always walking around with his shirt off.
Is it Sherri?
How do you mean, dad?
How does that make him a hero?
Awww.
Bart!
Bart Simpson! The thought of a boy trapped in a well brought out the kindness and love of the entire community. When they find out you've been fooling them, they're gonna want to cut you up with rusty razors.
The police will catch you sooner or later.
Maybe not, but I bet you're stupid enough to have left a "Property of Bart Simpson" label on that radio.
Hey, stop that!
What's going on?
I don't know, the Dolphins.
Look, Dad. I made a modest studio apartment for my Malibu Stacey doll. This is the kitchen, this is where she prints her weekly feminist newsletter...
DAAAAAD! You're not listening to me.
Why isn't Dad ever interested in anything I do?
No.... well, we used to have burping contests, but I outgrew it.
I think so.
Wouldn't it be fun if we watched the game together?
He said Denver just fumbled.
All right, Dolphins!
Whoo-hoo!
Fifty big ones?
You mean you made a bet?
What could be more exciting than the savage ballet that is pro football?
Uh-huh.
So gambling makes a good thing even better.
...three, two, one...
Boy, mom sure will be happy you won fifty dollars.
Really, where?
Okay, dad.
Goodnight, Dad. I had a really nice time today.
Can I watch football with you again next Sunday?
Point well taken. Uh, mom, could you loosen my blanket a little? Dad tucked me in too tight and it's cutting off the circulation in my arms and legs.
He'll lose.
Look at the fear in his eyes. Listen to the quiver in his voice. He's a little boy, lost in a game of men.
I'd bet my entire college fund on it.
Dad, I hate to break the mood, but I'm getting nauseous.
Well, I like the 49ers because they're pure of heart -- Seattle because they got something to prove -- and the Raiders because they always cheat.
Hey, the new sign is really working.
Let's see... football... Football: homo-eroticism in... oddball Canadian rules... Phyllis George and...
Yeah, me!
C'mon, dad. It doesn't take a genius to realize that Houston's failed to cover their last ten outings on away turf, the week after scoring more than three touchdowns in a conference game.
You know, dad, Sunday is fast becoming my favorite day of the week.
Mom, can't a man do something nice for his loved ones?
The Broken Neck Blues.
Dad, I'm making the Chiefs my five-star silver bullet special. And with your blessing, I'd like to tie it to the Cowboys plus five at Chicago.
Moe, this is L.S. calling for H.S.
The happiest day of my life was three Sundays ago. I was sitting on my daddy's knee when the Saints, who were four and a half point favorites, but only up by three, kicked a meaningless field goal at the last second, to cover the spread.
Oh dad, you must've bought me every Malibu Stacey accessory there is.
You know, dad, we've been watching a lot of TV lately. Maybe, the Sunday after the Super Bowl, we could hike up to the top of Mount Springfield. The fires in the tire yard really make for some beautiful sunsets.
What about Daddy-Daughter day?
So that's it. You just wanted me to help you gamble. You never wanted to be with me at all.
My third husband bought me this.
Give me some chips for it.
Don't tell me what to do, Sonny. I've been gambling since I was eight. And I've been hockin' jewelry since I was twelve. Now give me some chips!
Look around you, Malibu Stacey. All this was bought with dirty money. Your penthouse, your Alfa Romeo, your collagen injection clinic.
You're going back into the shoe-box. It may not be pretty, but dammit, it's honest.
I, Lisa Simpson, am hereby giving away all my ill-gotten Malibu Stacey accessories!
So you've come to buy my forgiveness. Sorry, Homer.
Yeah, I did.
Well, I would like to see what all the fuss is about.
Put me down.
Look dad, I'll tell you who's gonna win the Super Bowl if you want me to. But it'll just validate my theory that you cared more about winning money than you did about me.
I think Dallas is a mortal lock.
However...
However, I may be so clouded with rage that subconsciously I want you to lose. In which case, I'd bet the farm on Buffalo.
I don't know.
If I still love you, Dallas. If I don't, Buffalo.
Bart, who's winning?
I suspected as much.
Come on, Dad!
Isn't it though?
Don't even bother with the raisins. I'm not gonna eat 'em... Double bologna! Double bologna!... I don't ask for much, just no pimento. Don't forget to make it double bologna 'cause I can hardly...
Thanks mom.
No way.
Mom, Bart's making faces at me.
Mom, he's doing it again. Bart, quit it! Quit it! Hey quit it! Quit it! Quit it! Quit it! Quit it! Mommmmm!!
Bart's making faces.
Wish I'd thought of that.
That's alright. I think I'll just hit the hay.
I'm aware of the time.
You think you know fear? Well, I've seen them naked.
Bart you really shouldn't be looking through other people's things. Find anything good?
Ah, Bart! That's a black-head gun!
Dad!
Uh-um.
She's beautiful!
Wow, thanks Sparkle. Wait, this isn't you.
Is it that girl with the lazy eye patch?
Mmm! Could it be there's a special someone you're not telling me about?
Yeah?
Is it Terri?
Is it that exchange student Mx!pa?
Sure it is. Hey Bart, let's do some homework.
How's the dog supposed to get in?
Dad, this is not a commentary on your skills, but we bought you a new doghouse.
I knew it. All right, Bart, who's your girlfriend?
Maybe we should write her another letter. One that says good-bye but lets her feel loved.
"Though I'll be inoculating babies in Kampuchea, my heart will always be with you."
"Okay, okay... I cannot see you for the next five years, for I will be farming the ocean floor."
"And any time I hear the wind blow, it will whisper the name... Edna!"
Wow, Dad.
No, I want to get him a beer.
To the game.
You stink Strawberry. We want Home-run Homer!
Dar-ryl, Dar-ryl.
Mom, they're professional athletes. They're used to this sort of thing. It rolls right off their backs.
No mom, it counts as a hit. Dad just won the game.
All right! A test!
Janey, school is never a waste of time.
Homemaker?!
A homemaker! I might as well be dead!
Well, I'm gonna be a famous jazz musician. I've got it all figured out. I'll be unappreciated in my own country, but my gutsy blues stylings will electrify the French. I'll avoid the horrors of drug abuse, but I do plan to have several torrid love affairs. And I may or may not die young, I haven't decided.
Can you tell me if I have what it takes to be a blues musician?
But I'll practice every day!
You're wrong, you're wrong! You don't need long fingers to play the blues. The blues come from in here!
My God, they are stubby.
Dear Log... This will be my last entry. For you were a journal of my hopes and dreams, and now I have none.
What's so good about it....
What's the point? They'll never notice.
I quit.
If you think it's so great, why don't you join the band?
Janey, I'm about ready to chuck the whole stinking alphabet.
A doy.
Nothin'.
Okay, but if you really want to honk Skinner off, I suggest you attack the one thing he truly believes in.
Shove it.
Whattaya got?
Uh, I'll smoke it in class.
Come on, Bart. In your pre-Fascist days, you knew the giddy thrill of futile rebellion.
I don't know. You?
Well, you're earning your eighteen grand a year.
Stupid Hoover... thinks she's so smart.
She wouldn't be so smart without her Teacher's edition.
That's right. It was I.
I know. I know.
Bart, why'd you take the blame?
Oh, Bart.
Give it to the poor.
It's not fair to toy with people's emotions like that.
He is alive. He's wagging his tail.
Checkers.
Thanks, Mom.
But, Mom, next week is volume four: Copernicus through Elephantiasis.
Can't you see I'm reading a third-rate biography of Copernicus I found at the bus station?
Close the gate, Maggie.
Here Santa's Little Helper!
Have you found a picture yet?
Poor Santa's Little Helper. I'm starting to think we'll never see him again.
You already petted him for ten minutes.
Look dad, there's a spot.
Uh, we're getting a lot of sparks over here, dad.
"Honey, I Hit A School Bus"!
Just tell me when the scary part's over.
I guess that executive stress ball we got him for Christmas isn't working.
She's wonderful. I could feel her sweet country soul in every digitally-encoded bit.
I'm sorry?
These talking dinosaurs are more real than most real families on TV.
Ewww.
Sideshow Bob!
What a beautiful story, Sideshow Bob. You're living proof that our revolving door prison system works.
Come on, Bart. If Krusty can find it in his heart to forgive him, surely you can too.
I could've been the flower girl. And I wouldn't keep falling down either.
Yeah, well if they want to go for cutesiness instead of competence, fine.
See for yourself.
I'se just jammin' with you.
We don't have seatbelts.
I think you have to be more aggressive, sir.
Did the maniac kill her?
How?
I gotta help him.
Dad, what if I told you, you could lose weight without dieting or lifting a finger?
According to Eternity Magazine you can lose weight through subliminal learning. That's where an idea is subtly implanted in your head without you even knowing it.
They'll send you tapes you listen to while you sleep. As you hear new-age music, a powerful message goes to your brain, telling you to eat less.
Dad! Dad! Do you know what today is?
No. It's two weeks since you got that subliminal weight loss tape. Let's get you on the scale.
You've gained thirteen pounds.
Hey Bart, according to this magazine, in another million years, man will have an extra finger.
Why didn't you go to dad?
Well, according to "Eternity" magazine, the feeling of guilt has been linked to the neutrotransmitter gammaphenamine. Dow chemical is developing a minty gel, which will eliminate excess guilt, but unfortunately it won't be on the market for another six months. So I guess you're gonna have to bite the bullet and confess to Milhouse.
We leapt off just in time to see it collapse.
This Award is the biggest farce I ever saw.
I stand corrected.
Dad, you know you won.
Dad? Dad?
Unky Herb!
Why didn't you write, Unky Herb?
I see your point.
And while on Ventnor Avenue you'll be staying at the fabulous Hotel Lisa. A valet will be around shortly to park your thimble. Of course, there is the unpleasant matter of the bill.
Eleven hundred and fifty bones.
Well, I think we should invest in a set of the great books of Western Civilization. Look at this ad from "New Republic for Kids." Each month a new classic will be delivered to our door: "Paradise Regained," "Martin Chuzzlewit," or Herman Melville's twin classics "Omoo" and "Typee".
Maggie! Maggie!
I think we owe a debt to Unky Herb. He took us into his home and Dad destroyed him.
Peek-a-boo!
Finally, a copy of "Ethan Frome" to call my own.
No, Dad. You promised if Bart and I got C averages we could go to Kamp Krusty. And with no false modesty, you're looking at one happy camper.
I've never gotten a B before.
How could this have happened? I feel so dirty. Uh.. uh...uh. The dirt's not coming off. Okay. Calm down. This must just be a little typo.
Oh Miss Hoover, there appears to be a mistake on my report card. You gave me a B+ in conduct.
Perhaps I'm not making myself clear. I think you should reconsider.
So, Bart, will you be joining me in the bucolic splendor of Kamp Krusty?
A+! Oh, Bart, why didn't you at least forge plausible grades?
Before I go to camp, I'll need boosters for malaria, German Measles, encephalitis, Hansen's disease...
Don't patronize me, doctor.
I'll write you every day.
If the pets die, don't replace them. I'll know!
This is a little more rustic than I expected.
Are you sure that's safe?
You're serving us gruel?
I feel like I'm gonna die, Bart.
I meant soon.
Dear Mom and Dad, I no longer fear Hell, because I've been to Kamp Krusty.
Our nature hikes have become grim death marches.
Our arts and crafts center is, in actuality, a Dickensian workhouse.
Bart makes it through the days relying on his unwavering belief that Krusty the clown will come through.
But I am far more pessimistic.
I am not sure if this letter will reach you as our lines of communication have been cut.
And now the effort of writing has made me lightheaded. So I close by saying, save us! Save us now! Bart and Lisa.
He's really having trouble keeping his balance.
Kowalski!
Wiggum!
Crandall!
Bart, you said you were gonna name it "Camp Freedom."
Oh yeah? Who played your daughter in the short-lived sitcom, "President Clown"?
It is the real Krusty. Look at that pacemaker scar, the cattle skull birthmark, and his famous superfluous nipple.
Yuh huh.
Hey look, it's last year's winner, Deborah Jo Smallwood!
Sorry.
Wow! My mother the actress. I feel like Lucie Arnaz-Luckinbill.
Hey, Mom, would it help if ah talked lahk this, too?
Big Daddy, would y'all mind passin' a li'l ol' biscuit?
It's mom!
I think it's supposed to symbolize her descent into madness.
Mom!
Everybody was cheering for you.
"Our Father, who art in Heaven, hallowed by thy..."
Give it a little more gas.
No, no, that's too much.
Know what I think would help?
Nothing.
Dad, can I ask you a question?
Why are you dedicating your life to blasphemy?
Truly this was an act of God.
No.
Oh my God. I'm ugly.
Dad, do you think I'm ugly?
I'm an ugmo.
Fathers have to say that stuff.
I'd like to be alone, please.
I'm hideous.
So you think I'm ugly?
To shut myself off from the world and never be seen by human eyes again.
What are you talking about?
How could you? I won't do it!
Nope.
But that ride meant everything to him!
I'll do it.
She's beautiful.
I thought those were illegal.
There's no way I can beat this girl. She's the Jack Nicklaus of the pageant circuit.
I meant because they both win all the time, Mom.
Are we done?
Isn't this dangerous?
It's hopeless.
Do you really think I can win?
But those other girls are prettier than me.
Oh Bart.
My name is Lisa Simpson, and I want to be Little Miss Springfield so I can make our town a better place!
Thanks, Dad.
Some people say that to love your country is old fashioned, uncool, real melvin... Well to them I say OH BEAUTIFUL, FOR SPACIOUS SKIES, FOR AMBER WAVES OF GRAIN...
One! Two! Three! Four!
LEFT A GOOD JOB IN THE CITY -- WORKIN' FOR THE MAN EVERY NIGHT AND DAY...
As Little Miss Springfield, it's my pleasure to welcome you to America, the Land of Opportunity.
I'd say the greater danger is her scepter acting as a lightning rod. Unless it's made out of plastic.
Hi fellas.
I'm going to be riding on a pack of cigarettes?
I don't want to be a spokesperson for a cigarette company!
Stop this float!
I'm tired of being a corporate shill.
From now I will speak out against the evils in society from dog napping to cigarettes.
Before I sing the National Anthem, I'd like to say that college football diverts funds badly needed for education and the arts.
Dad, do you remember why you entered me in that pageant?
Possibly. But the point is, you wanted me to feel better about myself. And I do.
Uh-huh.
It's a deal.
No.
You said he went bowling!
Bart, please. Don't you remember that Snowball I died four years ago tonight? Run over by the Mayor's beer swilling brother, Clovis.
It's not working.
Bart! You cast the wrong spell! Zombies!
Dad, we did something very bad.
Yes.
Uh huh.
Wait Bart! Maybe the library has another book that'll reverse the spell.
Hurry, Bart!
What's wrong?
What are we going to have?
What if one of us has been good and one of us has been bad?
Ew!
Bart!
Bart, come quick! There's an Itchy and Scratchy MOVIE!!!
We got beets!
Dad, I agree that Bart should be punished, but the Itchy and Scratchy movie is the defining event of our generation. How would you have liked it if someone told you that you couldn't watch the moon landing?
It wasn't that great.
It was the greatest movie I've ever seen in my life. And you wouldn't believe the celebrities who did cameos. Dustin Hoffman, Michael Jackson... of course they didn't use their real names, but you could tell it was them.
Sorry Bart.
Dad, you've got to let Bart see that movie. I've never seen him like this. He has the demented melancholia of a Tennessee Williams heroine.
Uh... I think it needs a little padding.
Up-up-up. When I'm done.
Mom, they expect you to lie a little.
Well, you voted for him... twice!
I think it's wonderful. Mom and Dad side by side at the power plant. You'll be just like Marie and Pierre Curie.
They discovered radium. Then they both died of radiation poisoning.
I don't think we should be down here.
Bart! The Winfields didn't have a son.
Bart, that's not funny.
Aaah!
Dad, make Bart wash his hand.
Daad!
Oh, I get it. Bart, the baby-sitter's here. Let me tuck you in.
Homer.
Bart, are you taking a bath?
This wouldn't have anything to do with Laura coming over, would it?
I don't care. Ask Hef over there.
Good luck in your trumped-up law suit, Dad.
Hey, wait... that's not a dummy!
Dad, that's not the real Batman.
Dad, have you considered buying commercial time on channel ninety-two? Check it out.
Look! There we are!
Old Man Winter!
Uh-huh.
But I'm a real tightwad. Can I afford this remarkable system?
I think you should do a new ad. One that's fresh and original.
Ooh / Meow / Dad, stop you're embarrassing us / Stop please.
Promise you'll never do that again.
Dad, was that your commercial?
Be-bop? "Be-bop"?
Well, don't push her. Remember, "Tis better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to open your mouth and remove all doubt."
Tell it, Mom. Tell, it Mom.
I wish we lived in the kitty house.
Mommy.
When are we going to get to my first word?
My first word.
Daaad!
Mondale to Hart: Where's the Beef?
Davah Hassahoff.
Bart.
Bart!
Bart. Bart Bart Bart Bart Bart.
Homer.
I don't see your name on it.
Ha, ha. Mom yelled at you.
Did too.
Huh, okay.
Bart, that's gross!
Daaad!
Operation? What are you talking about?
We feel neither highs nor lows.
Eh.
Dad, are you trying to tell us you're getting a coronary-artery bypass graft?
My dad is very sick. What's gonna happen if he dies?
Mom, this is fascinating. Did you know that they'll stop Dad's heart for six whole minutes?
No, Mom, it's very reassuring. And I've learned a great deal from this cow's heart I got at the butcher shop.
Oh dad.
Hey! The incision in the coronary artery must be made below the blockage. Below!
All right, Dad!
Oh, what a boon it could be for our under-funded public schools.
Don't you mean three million dollars?
Hardly. I'd like you to explain why we should build a mass transit system in a small town with a centralized population.
Really?
Mr. Lanley! Aren't you gonna ride the monorail?
But the ride only takes a minute.
Yayyy!
We're under six!
We understand.
Five... six... seven... eight...
... Nine... ten...
Goodbye, Great Aunt Gladys. I wish I had made more of an effort to get to know you these last few years.
Aunt Selma, this may be presumptuous, but have you ever considered artificial insemination?
Goodbye Dad! Don't eat any solids.
Yayyy!
There it is!
The Beeramid contains so much aluminum it would take five men to lift it. Twenty-two immigrant laborers died during its construction...
Look! It's the Seven Duffs!
There's "Surly"... and "Remorseful".
This is a disgrace.
I'm not sure that is water.
Bart, quit it, Bart. Quit it, quit it, quit it!
They're all around me. No way out. No way out I tell you!
Aaaahhhh!!!
Ahhh, I can see the music.
I am the Lizard Queen!
Can't talk. Comin' down.
Dad, hide your shame!
I did.
Dad, can I...
All right, Mom. I promise you will never be billed for another call. Bobby Sherman...
Yes, Principal Skinner.
Midnight?
Uh - huh.
Just like Oscar the Grouch.
MUST YOU BE FOREVER DIALING THAT PHONE?!!!
Excuse me.
Oh, c'mon! Hurry!
I made it!
Oh, no. It's a package from Ralph.
Isn't that just pointless busywork?
Poor Ralph.
Here you go, Ralph.
Happy Valentine's.
Sure, I guess.
Glad you liked it.
Yeah. Nice gag.
Well, here's my house.
Ralph thinks I like him. But I only gave him a valentine 'cause I felt sorry for him.
What do you say to a boy to let him know you're not interested?
I get the idea.
Thanks, Mom.
Ralph, I think you're nice but, I'm just not ready for this kind of thing. Do you understand?
Good.
Forget it. To get those tickets our parents would have to be part of Springfield's cultural elite.
Oh no, it's Ralph! Just make some excuse.
Now Ralph is in this play with me. I just know he's going to embarrass me in front of the whole school.
Oh, a Malibu Stacy Convertible! "Look in the tunk." He must mean trunk.
Tickets to the Krusty Anniversary Show! Oh, he must want me to go with him.
I'm not sure I should go. I don't even like him.
What if he wants to hold hands?
What if he wants a kiss?
What if he...
Dad, is it right to take things from people you don't like?
Well, actually, it's not as bad as stealing, but my conscience is bothering me.
Hmm, I think you should give that a rest, Ralph. Chief Wiggum, how did you ever get these tickets?
That story isn't suitable for children.
Eiw.
No, thanks.
Aw.
Oh no. Please don't show me with Ralph.
Noooo!!
Now you listen to me -- I don't like you. I never liked you, and the only reason I gave you that stupid valentine is `cause nobody else would!
Ralph, I'm sorry I...
Uh... Ralph?
Dear, dear George Washington. Can this liberty you dream of be worth all this bloodshed?
Well, can it?
But couldn't we just give in to the British?
Oh, George...
Please don't leave me, George.
Hi, Ralph. You were great tonight.
I've got something for you.
I thought you'd like it.
First prize... first prize...
First prize... first prize...
Just screwing with your mind.
I've grown a futuristic tomato by fertilizing it with Anabolic steroids.
The very same. I think this tomato could wipe out world hunger.
Oh Bart, I forgot my math book. Would you hold this for me, please?
Bart!!!!!
Mom, Bart wrecked my project and the science fair's in three days!
Oh... I was just thinking of a joke I saw on "Herman's Head."
I want the most intelligent hamster you've got.
How can a hamster write mysteries?
Oh, come on.
I propose to determine the answer to the question: "Is my brother dumber than a hamster?"
Remarkable.
Hamster one... Bart... zero.
Experiment two: The food is connected to a mild electrical current.
The hamster has learned a valuable lesson. Beware the hand of man.
Hampster two... Bart zero...
What have you done with my report?
Got it.
Please, Mother. It's purely in the interest of science.
But this project has no scientific merit.
Oh no. I'll be socially unpopular. More so.
This is your chance to get a fair shake for the working man.
Do you think you can get the dental plan back?
Mmmm.
Uh huh.
The mirror. The mirror!
COME GATHER 'ROUND CHILDREN / IT'S HIGH-TIME YE LEARNS / 'BOUT A HERO NAMED HOMER / AND A DEVIL NAMED BURNS / WE'LL MARCH TILL WE DROP / THE GIRLS AND THE FELLAS / WILL FIGHT TILL THE DEATH OR ELSE FOLD LIKE UMBRELLAS
SO WE'LL MARCH DAY AND NIGHT / BY THE BIG COOLING TOWER / THEY HAVE THE PLANT / BUT WE HAVE THE POWER.
SO WE'LL MARCH DAY AND NIGHT /
And that's the tooth!
Like Halloween and Christmas, April Fool's Day traces its origins to pagan ritual.
April first used to be the Pagan New Year.
The Christians changed their calendar and ridiculed those who didn't.
Now who's laughing? Now who's laughing?
Dad! I was telling the story.
Arrrgh!
So did mine.
Arrrgh!
Arrrgh!
Hey, we know you're tough, Dad. Remember that time you got lost in the forest?
Is a coma painful?
Eww.
I wish I'd gotten to know you better, Dad. But there were times when we really connected.
Hi, Dad. Want me to cut out this infernal racket?
Why?
I wrote this for you, Dad.
Bart, you can't go on like this.
We're a family again!
You were in that coma for seven weeks.
It's so sad that Krusty is ashamed of his roots.
Lois Sanborn.
This is a rather lifeless outing.
That's as bad as the tasteless Itchy and Sambo cartoons of the late 30s. The writers should be ashamed of themselves.
Yeah, sort of.
Write a cartoon ourselves? Bart, are you thinking what I'm thinking?
According to this book, the first thing we need is a setting.
Great.
Scratchy is getting a haircut. Then Itchy -- the barber -- chops Scratchy's head off with a razor!
Finished. Now all we have to do is put our names on it.
No way.
Look there's only one reasonable way to settle this: rock, paper, scissors.
Paper.
Bart, they rejected our script.
Maybe he just doesn't take us seriously 'cause we're kids. Let's put a grownup's name on it.
No, we're just curious.
Grampa, how'd you take off your underwear without taking off your pants?
Bart! Our Cartoon's on TV!
... then we put your name on the script and sent it in.
Grampa, we could write the scripts for you and split the money three ways.
Yay!
Wow, it must be expensive to produce all these cartoons.
They said their insurance won't cover you.
I guess nobody likes the truth, huh Grampa.
January 8, 1815. Two weeks after the war ended.
Oh no. No!
It's all so barbaric.
I learned how many drams in a pennyweight.
Whacking Day is coming.
But killing snakes is evil.
Excuse me.
Dad?
Dad, everyone likes Whacking Day, but I hate it. Is there something wrong with me?
Then, what should I do?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let me see that.
Dad please, for the last time, I beg you, don't lower yourself to the level of the mob.
If the snakes were in here we could protect them.
Oh, good idea! Let's see... bass, bass... "Tiny Tim"... "The Chipmunks Greatest Hits"... "A Castrato Christmas"...
Mr. White, can we borrow you for a minute?
In here!
Now wait a minute. How can you people turn on snakes after all they've done for you?
Mrs. Glick, who killed all those rats in your basement?
Mom, can you bring me more O.J.?
Mom, I need more O.J.
Mom, I need more O.J.
O.J.
O.J.
Yay!
You're a latter-day Clarence Darrow.
You're still my hero, Mom.
Excuse me, but I think if we all do our fair share, we can keep this house clean.
It seems like I've been wearing the same red dress forever.
Oh Mom, I've missed you so much.
We've gotta clean this up before mom gets back.
I don't think they're giving you enough information, Dad.
I can't believe it. Our first glimpse of Gabbo!
That's the same time as Krusty the Klown!
Yeah, well Krusty stole it from Steve Allen.
Two wrongs don't make a right, Bart.
No they don't.
No they don't.
Dad...
He's a big TV star.
Hey Bart, If we get all of these big stars to appear on a special with Krusty, it might get his career going again.
Miss Midler, I can't believe you do this all by yourself.
We were asking you to appear on Krusty's come back special.
Krusty! What have you done to yourself?
You mean those diet milkshakes?
We're getting 50% of the T-shirt sales.
Wow an original Malibu Stacey from 1958. Oooh.
Oh my.
Bart, look! It's Dad!
Wow, look at all this Be Sharps merchandise! Lunch boxes, coffee mugs, funny foam...
I can't believe you're not still popular.
What about Bob Hope? He's been consistently popular for over 50 years.
Dean Martin still packs 'em in.
But there are still a few things I don't get. Like how come we never heard about this until today?
Why haven't you hung up your gold record?
The Fox network has sunk to a new low.
It's from my pen pal, Anya!
Bart, what's wrong with you?
That's good, Dad.
Yeah!
Bart, I figured it out. Who's someone you've been making irritating phone calls to for years?
No, someone who didn't deserve it.
Hello Moe?
We know you're the one behind this. So knock it off or we're going to the cops.
Sideshow Bob!
Hey look! "The FBI Light Opera Society Sings the Complete Gilbert and Sullivan."
THREE LITTLE MAIDS FROM SCHOOL ARE WE / PERT AS A SCHOOLGIRL WELL CAN BE / FILLED TO THE BRIM WITH GIRLISH GLEE / THREE LITTLE MAIDS FROM SCHOOL...
Oh, no! Dad's been drugged!
Dad, don't let these application essays throw you. Let's see... "List your three favorite books and how they've influenced your life."
No.
No.
No.
Oh, those baby ducks were so cute. I can't believe they let us walk right up and feed them.
We stopped five minutes ago.
I heard about this. This is the one where Scratchy finally gets Itchy.
Plug it in! Plug it in!
The TV! The TV!
It's bad enough they put their retainers in the dishwasher -- Can't we do something?
No you didn't. You only passed your course by cheating, which you always taught us was wrong.
Actually, Mom, a tweaking of Mr. Burns' foibles if done with the greatest of care could earn Dad a special place in the old man's heart.
Does either of you know what incontinent means?
I'd like to believe that this time. I really would.
I knew it.
Bobo. It's Mr. Burns' bear all right.
I think we should just give him the bear that he cherishes so much.
Is it my imagination or is TV getting worse?
Wait! Doesn't my father have the right to a fair trial?
Dad, I wouldn't go outside if I were you.
Nope. It says right there, school bus.
Bart, what's wrong?
And...?
Excuse me, Bart's a little upset this morning, so could everyone please be extra-nice to him?
No, no, they're wrong! The creature they seek is the walking undead. Nosferatu! Das Wampyre!
A vampire!
Ah, there's something fishy about this whole setup.
Dad, do you notice anything strange?
Eww, Dad, this is blood.
Whoops. Bart and I have to go wash up.
You're probably right. Let's just go back...
Satisfied?
Look!
Oh my God!
Please, Bart, I've seen your stupid Shemp.
Yeah, I've seen your Curly too.
Mom, Dad! Mr. Burns is a vampire, and he has Bart!
No! No!
The only way to get Bart back is to kill the head vampire, Mr. Burns.
No, Dad.
You must drive this stake right through his heart.
Uh, Dad, that's his crotch.
It's so nice having everything back to normal.
Grampa's a vampire?!
But, no, we killed Mr. Burns.
You're the head vampire?
Mom?!
Happy Halloween, everybody!
LU, LU, LU / LU LU LU LU LU / LU LU LU LU LU LU LU
Have a blast, Mom!
Sure Dad.
Hey, Dad, I think state and federal laws require us to have a baby-sitter.
Mr. Hutz, why are you burning all your personal papers?
Don't worry, Mr. Hutz is still here to take care of us.
I always knew some day Mom would violently rise up, and cast off the shackles of our male oppressors.
Quit it, Bart. Quit it. Quit it. Quit it. Mom, Bart's making faces.
What is it?
Dad, this one gesture almost makes up for years of shaky fathering.
I'm going to have my wedding here.
Um... Uh, well... Uh...
Are you mad?
We know, Dad.
What!?
This is madness. He's just peddling a bunch of easy answers.
Is that why you're sitting on an ice cream sandwich?
It's simple, Bart. You've defined yourself as a rebel. And in the absence of a repressive milieu, your societal niche has been co-opted.
Ever since that self-help guy came to town, you've lost your identity. You've fallen through the cracks of our quick-fix, one-hour-photo, instant-oatmeal society.
Well, this is your chance to develop a new and better identity. May I suggest "good-natured doormat?"
No! Self-improvement can be achieved, but not with a quick-fix. It's a long, arduous journey of personal and spiritual discovery.
Dad, sit down.
Tsk, tsk. The remorse of the sugar junkie.
Really? Not even this?
The few, the proud, the geeky.
Oh, Bart, cartoons don't have to be one hundred percent realistic.
Dad, look, I made fish sticks. They're burned on the outside, but they're frozen on the inside so it balances out.
Dad, why are you singing?
Are you hiding something from me?
Judging from your song, you're infatuated with a woman named Mindy... or a man named Andy.
Dad, I'm not gonna fall for that.
Huh?
Dad, you shouldn't wear glasses that weren't prescribed for you.
Gimme those.
Excuse me, Mr. Mayor.
This piggy bank contains fifteen dollars I've saved from my allowance. It isn't much, but I would like to help.
Mom, we're having a geography pageant at school, and I don't know which state to go as.
No. Nevada makes my butt look big.
Dad, what do you think?
Do you get the feeling this family is disintegrating? I mean we haven't had a meal with Mom all week. And she hasn't even started my costume for the Geography Pageant.
There's nothing to eat for breakfast.
Maybe Mom just doesn't realize we miss her. We could go down to the casino and let her know.
Mommm!
I just had a bad dream.
Well, I know it's absurd, but I dreamed the Boogeyman was after me and he's hiding...
Does this mean you'll help me with my costume?
Thanks, Mom.
Dad, Mom said she'd be home to help me with my costume, and she's not and the Geography Pageant is tonight.
But Dad, if I don't show up in a rubber suit shaped like the state of Florida, I'll be the laughing stock of the whole school.
Dad!
I'm not a state, I'm a monster!
Wake up, Dad! Wake up! There was a burglar and he took my saxophone.
YOU had a stamp collection?
Bart's pain is funny, but mine isn't. That saxophone was my one creative outlet. It was the only way I could truly express myself.
We are insured, aren't we, Mom?
What's the point of all these precautions? I've already lost the only thing that matters to me.
What, this jug?
Thank you.
Dad, don't you see you're abusing your power like all vigilantes? I mean, if you're the police, who will police the police?
And I still don't have my saxophone.
World domination?
Dad, maybe this will cheer you up.
Oh, Grampa. They pelted you too?
What? Who? Huh? What?
Wow! How'd you track him down, Grampa?
Thank you. And thank you, Dad. You got it back, just like you said you would.
Why are you so happy?
You're right, Bart. School is for losers.
And that's how I cured all disease, ended war, and reunited the entire cast of TV's "Facts Of Life", including long time hold-out, Tootie.
Hush, field trip boy.
Impaled on my Nobel Peace Prize. How ironic.
Why? I'm so much happier here.
I've got a weekend job helping the poor. And I'm only eight.
This biography of Bart came out awfully quickly. It's not even about him.
But inside it's mostly about Ross Perot. And the last two chapters are excerpts from the Oliver North trial.
Like what?
Forget it, Dad. If I ever become famous, I want it to be for something worthwhile, not because of some obnoxious fad.
And now you can go back to just being you, instead of a one-dimensional character with a silly catchphrase.
If anyone wants me I'll be in my room.
Dad, you should blow the whistle on the Kwik-E-Mart.
Dad, are you listening to me?
I can see through time.
Mmm corn. Haven't had that in awhile.
Bye!
And he taught me how to play the shenai.
I think what my father's saying is you're like a member of the family now.
THEY MADE DAD SICKY-MART.
Isn't there anything you can do to get your job back?
Dad... That's over ten thousand miles away.
That's over sixteen thousand kilometers.
Dad, Dad!
What'd ya bring? What'd ya bring?
I'm sorry, Apu. But remember, Who needs a Kwik-E-Mart--
Awww.
Awww.
Thanks. "Mr. Simpson. Stop. Your constant letters are becoming a nuisance. Stop. If you do not cease, I will be forced to pursue legal action. Stop. Signed, Boris Karloff, Hollywood, California."
I'm warning you, Mom -- I may get a little crazy.
Hey, horse-face! Git yer ugly pie-hooks off that Summer Fun Set!
Thanks for buying us these toys, Grampa.
A hush falls over the General Assembly as Stacy approaches the podium to deliver what will no doubt be a stirring and memorable address.
Come on, Stacy. I've waited my whole life to hear you speak. Don't you have anything relevant to say?
It's not funny, Bart! Millions of girls will grow up thinking that this is the right way to act! That they can never be anything more than vacuous ninnies whose only goal is to look pretty, land a rich husband, and spend all day on the phone with their equally vacuous friends talking about how damn terrific it is to look pretty and have a rich husband!!
Don't you people see anything wrong with what Malibu Stacy says?
No, Celeste, I mean the things she says are sexist.
They cannot keep making dolls like this! Something has to be done!
I can't believe you're just gonna stand by as your daughters grow up in a world where this, this is their role model.
That's it! I'm calling the company!
Mom! We could go on the factory tour and I could complain in person!
I have one.
Is the remarkably sexist drivel spouted by Malibu Stacy intentional, or is it just a horrible mistake?
It's awful being a kid. No one listens to you.
Well, I'm not gonna accomplish anything just sitting here--
Action! I've got to talk to that woman who invented Malibu Stacy and see if I can get her to --
You're getting a job.
I thought you might be able to help me get in touch with the inventor of Malibu Stacy.
Thanks.
No, it couldn't be...
Excuse me. Miss Lovell? I'd like to talk to you about Malibu Stacy.
Am I the first?
I want you to hear what Malibu Stacy is telling a generation of little girls.
Change what she says. It's your company.
That's awful!
But you are Malibu Stacy, and as long as she has your name, you have a responsibility. I'd be mortified if someone ever made a lousy product with the Simpson name on it.
But if you can learn from Malibu Stacy's mistakes, so can everyone. I'm sure we can think of something together. C'mon!
No you're not! Uh, I'll come back tomorrow.
I've got the solution -- you and I are gonna make our own talking doll. She'll have the wisdom of Gertrude Stein and the wit of Cathy Guisewite, the tenacity of Nina Totenberg and the common sense of Elizabeth Cady Stanton. And to top it off, the down-to-earth good looks of Eleanor Roosevelt!
Make sure you get my Mom's hair just right.
How about me?
"...When I get married, I'm keeping my own name." You know, that should probably be if I choose to get married.
All right! Now all we need is a name.
How about "Minerva," after the Roman goddess of wisdom?
This is great! They're really gonna sell our doll.
Really?
Dad, did you hear something?
Wait! Don't be fooled! She's just a regular Malibu Stacy with a stupid cheap hat! She still embodies all the awful stereotypes she did before.
Well, I guess you can't beat big business. There's just no room for the little guy.
You know, if we get through to just that one little girl, it'll all be worth it.
What?
How doth the hero, strong and brave, a celestial path in the heavens pave!
Go, Dad, go.
What are you basing that on, Mom?
Come on, Dad, you can make it.
Yeah, Dad. How many people have seen the ice caps and the deserts all at once, or the majesty of the northern lights from one hundred miles above?
What's so special about this game anyway? It's just another chapter in the pointless rivalry between Springfield and Shelbyville. They built a mini mall so we built a bigger mini mall. They made the world's largest pizza so we burnt down their city hall.
Dad and Ned Flanders friends? What's next... "A's" on Bart's report card?
Don't worry, Bart. It seems like every week something odd happens to the Simpsons. My advice is to ride it out, make an occasional smart-alec quip and by next week we'll be back to where we started from, ready for another wacky adventure.
That's the spirit.
We got the recipe from the Fruit Punch Advisory Board.
Yeah. Maybe this means the end of our wacky adventures.
Hi, Mom.
And I'm going to the park to jam with the Little White Girls Blues Quartet. Wanna come with me, Daddy-o?
Me too.
They're having a great time and I'm stuck in here.
We won't.
You all seem to be forgetting the most important thing. Which is that it's wrong to imprison an animal.
He's hungry. Here you go, Stampy. Eat it slow. It has to last for...
You ate it too fast.
You can't do that, Dad. It's cruel.
He can't just eat peanuts, Dad. He needs plants to live.
No, Dad. He's grooming him.
Taught Stampy any tricks yet, Bart?
I think they're trying to get some attention.
Yeah well, you'd be grumpy too if you were taken out of your natural habitat and gawked at by a bunch of slack-jawed yokels.
It's perfect, Dad.
Dad, I think he's an ivory dealer. His boots are ivory, his hat is ivory, and I'm pretty sure that check is ivory.
Mr. Blackheart?
Are you an ivory dealer?
Mom! Dad! Bart and Stampy are gone!
I'll bet it's because of that horrible ivory dealer, Dad.
A deer!
Dad, how would you like to be sold to an ivory dealer?
Dad! You're sinking!
Dad!
Dad, feline means cat.
Dad!
Ow! My hair!
I propose to you that your heir need not be a boy. In this phallocentric society of ours...
Dad, Mr. Burns hasn't passed away yet.
It couldn't possibly be bottomless.
Hey Mom, Bart's throwing peas.
Ow! That was a big one.
Just trying to fill the void of random, meaningless destruction that Bart's absence has left in our hearts.
Yeah, me too. That midget taught me a lot about his native Estonia.
Just take one of my geodes. The rocks on my desk.
No, that's a Trilobite... That's petrified wood... Bart, that's a bran
muffin.
That's guilt. You feel guilty because your stunt wound up costing a man his job.
Wow, I never thought Principal Skinner could become any more of a square, but there's the proof.
I think you need Skinner, Bart. Everybody needs a nemesis. Sherlock Holmes had his Dr. Moriarty. Mountain Dew has its Mello-Yello. Even Maggie has that baby with the one eyebrow.
They're not "imprisoning us," Bart. They're...
Otto!
You started off as the bad cop. But now you're the good one. You and Willie got mixed up about ten minutes ago.
Now you're the good cop.
How do you know? There weren't any witnesses.
You'd think someone would have seen something at a crowded party like that.
You're a witness? Bart, you have to tell the police.
Why?
Oh, I see. If you testify, Skinner will know you skipped school. Well, if Freddy Quimby didn't do it, I'm sure he'll be found innocent by a fair and impartial jury.
I knew it was a bad idea to watch him open the mail.
Only because Mayor Quimby's buying his nephew's freedom.
Well Bart, because of you, a horrible, yet innocent person is going to jail.
Chicks on the bench...
So Bart, have your insides been gnawed away by guilt, yet?
Maggie, can you point to the credenza?
We didn't invite the other babies. Maggie doesn't seem to get along with the other babies.
HOT DOGS / ARMOUR HOT DOGS...
WHAT KINDS OF KIDS EAT ARMOUR HOT DOGS?
SKINNY KIDS...
TOUGH KIDS...
Doesn't this family know any songs that aren't commercials?
It looks like part of Scratchy's arm.
Yeesh. How much was it?
Oooh.
Where's Grampa? Wasn't he invited?
Sneh.
I think it's great you're a teacher, Dad. So, will you be lecturing from a standardized text or using the more Socratic method of interactive class participation?
I find this demeaning and embarrassing beyond my worst nightmares.
Me too.
I'll tell you a secret, Bart. Every time I'm worried about Mom and Dad, I go to the attic and add to my ball of string.
Here, Dad. I brought you some nice...
Dad, that's just a plant.
Look, I brought you some nice pudding.
Dad, you can't trick somebody into loving you. There's a reason two people come together and stay together. There's something they give each other that nobody else can give them. If you want to get Mom back, you just have to remember what you give her that nobody else can.
No.
Good luck, Dad.
I'm really glad you're back, Dad. I knew you could do it. Now don't screw it up.
Ah, face it, Bart. Our salvation isn't just gonna roll by on the Back of some stupid truck.
POOL MOBILE?!!
Time's up?!
Dad...
Dad...
Dad...
Dad, as you know, we've been swimming. And we've developed a taste for it. We both agree that getting our own pool is the only way to go. Now before you respond, you must understand that your refusal would result in months and months of...
CanwehaveapoolDad? CanwehaveapoolDad? CanwehaveapoolDad? CanwehaveapoolDad? CanwehaveapoolDad? Canwe... etc.
Yes, Dad.
Oh, look. Bart's all alone. Maybe I should keep him company, at least for a little while.
Dad... You have to put chlorine in the water every day, to keep it clean.
Uh, Bart...?
Sorry. I just came to see how you were feeling.
What are you writing here? A play?
Yuh huh. "Cast of Characters: Viceroy Fizzlebottom, a hearty cherub of a man..."
Oh, well, y'know, it ain't so great. Bart, it's the best thing that ever happened to me in my whole life! Well, anyway, I brought you a present.
Look, it's the telescope I won at the Optics Festival.
But...
Thanks, Nelson.
Shut up, brain! I got friends now. I don't need you anymore. Duh, yeah, I'd love to go to your house.
Hello? Hey, I'm stuck in here. I gotta think of a way to get out.
Bart, I'm really sorry I've been ignoring you lately. I got carried away with being popular. But now that I'm unpopular again, I want you to know I'm here for you.
Bart, I'm here for you but, I'm not gonna break into somebody's house.
I'm goin', I'm goin!
Oh!
It's my room and I can do what I want.
Bart, quit it!
Mom, I'm auditioning for first chair in the school band and I've got to practice!
Fine. I'll play outside.
Sorry, Ralph. That would defeat the purpose of testing as a means of student evaluation.
Ooh! Ooh!
I never made Miss Hoover yow-wee.
Hi, Allison? I'm Lisa Simpson. Oh, it's great to finally meet someone who converses above the normal eight-year-old-level.
You're younger than me, too?
No. I just like to smell my lunch... Gee, I never met anyone who skipped a grade before.
Well, I'm sure I could have, but I'd hate to leave behind all my wonderful friends.
The sax.
I'm going for first chair this year.
Wow, with so much in common, I'm sure we'll be the best of friends.
Me, too.
Mom.
Why am I still rotting away in the second grade instead of being skipped ahead?
Well, did you ever talk to anyone at the school? Make a few calls on my behalf? Maybe you could've been "nicer" to Principal Skinner, if you know what I mean.
It hurts my teeth.
And it doesn't have nails and broken glass in it...
I won first chair?
What's happening... Oh... it was just a dream.
I won first chair?
I need help, Mom. There's another girl at school who's smarter, younger, and a better sax player than me. Oh I feel so average.
But she's better than me at everything that makes me special.
You're thinking of bears, Mom.
I can't tell you either, Ralph.
Ah, that used to be my face in the mud...
I appreciate the offer, but it goes against every moral fiber in my body.
I don't need a card. You live in the room next to me.
Hey, I am above average! So what if Allison's ahead of me? There's no shame in being second.
Why would they come to our concert just to boo us?
I've got to stop being so petty. I should be Allison's friend, not her competitor. I mean, she is a wonderful person.
I prefer my phrasing.
You're a wonderful person.
Oh really? I...
Jeremy's Iron.
What's this?
You're finished already? But the competition isn't for weeks.
It's great. It's really great.
Look, Bart. It almost killed me, but I hand-crafted all seventy-five characters from Oliver Twist. And now the coup de grace - a bitter snowstorm.
Is it okay?!
Oh who am I kidding? There's no way I'm ever gonna beat Allison!
I'll do whatever it takes.
Relatively?
Bart, her being wet won't help me win the competition.
Perfect!
Enough with the hose!
It's the beating of that hideous heart! I mean, I think I hear something.
Why, here's Allison's real diorama. It got misplaced, ...or so it would seem.
After the way I've behaved, I don't deserve to win.
What?
I'm really sorry about what I did, Allison. It's no shame being second to you.
Only if we're the best.
Hey, Ralph. Want to come with me and Allison to play anagrams?
Not exactly. They pieced it together from old shows, and it seems new to the trusting eyes of impressionable youth.
Ren and Stimpy do it all the time.
Mom, romance is dead. It was acquired in a hostile takeover by Hallmark and Disney. Homogenized, then sold off piece by piece.
Happy Valentine's.
Yes, I do. And just like your love stories, it's tragic and filled with hurt feelings and scars that will never heal.
It started appropriately enough with an innocent boy being embarrassed on Valentine's Day...
Poor Ralph.
Here you go, Ralph.
It was an unusually warm February 14th, so the children walked home without jackets.
Sure, I guess.
Glad you liked it.
Yeah. Nice gag.
Well, here's my house.
Oh, no. It's a package from Ralph.
Oh, a Malibu Stacy Convertible! "Look in the tunk." He must mean trunk.
Tickets to the Krusty Anniversary Show!
No, thanks.
Aw.
Oh no. Please don't show me with Ralph.
Noooo!!
Now you listen to me -- I don't like you. I never liked you, and the only reason I gave you that stupid valentine is 'cause nobody else would!
Mom, doesn't any love story have a happy ending?
That didn't seem like a happy ending.
That seems more like a detached tale of modern alienation.
Sorry, Mom. I've decided to save my love for someone who is guaranteed not to reject me.
Soon, Corey, soon.
Ah, your first kiss.
Dad! Remember how you said that going to Itchy and Scratchy Land would be too damned expensive?
Can we?
Yayyyyyy!
Yayyy!
We're going to Itchy and Scratchy Land!
Mom! Dad! Bart's dead!
You know, Itchy and Scratchy Land isn't just for kids. They have a place called Parents Island.
Yeah. "Dancing, bowling, fashionable shops, over one hundred bars and saloons, and a world class chemical dependency center."
Yayyyy!
Okay, bye-bye / Bye / Bye, Grampa.
Haven't we stood in five different states long enough?
Cool! / Neat-o!
Ow!
Mom, that's veal.
Awww, look at that cute little baby axe.
Who are all these characters?
Oh yeah. They weren't very funny.
I wonder if this kind of violence really does desensitize us?
Okay.
Don't do it, Bart.
Dad, I think you're wrong about that robot trying to be your friend.
Dad, the flash must have scrambled their circuits.
Just keep taking pictures.
Yeah, best ever.
But Mom, it's exactly what you wanted in a vacation. It brought us together as a family, we got a lot of good exercise outdoors, and we have so many memories.
No, Mom. He's right. Observe.
I don't like him either Mom, but I'm doing a report on local politics for my school project.
Dad, I had to listen to this jerk all morning. Can we listen to something else?
That sounds like Sideshow Bob!
Dad, I'll spare you the embarrassment of admitting you don't know who Sideshow Bob is.
Sideshow Bob used to be Krusty the Clown's sidekick. But in 1990, he framed Krusty for armed robbery and Bart got him put in jail.
When he got out, he married Aunt Selma and tried to murder her.
Bart! Your mortal enemy is on the radio!
I meant your other mortal enemy, Sideshow Bob.
Uncle Mayor was just saying that us kids are the most important natural resource we have!
This time, he's the lesser of two evils.
I hope that flu doesn't affect his performance out there.
There's no Councilman Les Wynan.
I don't think Bob won that election legally. I can't believe a convicted felon would get so many votes and another convicted felon would get so few.
I thought this was a secret ballot.
Okay, Aaron A. Aaronson voted for... Bob. Aaron L. Aaronson voted for... Bob. Arthur B. Ablabab voted for... Bob.
Hey!
This is so cool, Bart. We're just like Woodward and Bernstein!
No Edgar Neubauer.
This is hopeless. They're gonna demolish our house for sure. We're gonna have to move into a Motel 6.
No, Bart, don't you see? Dead people can't vote!
Look! Prudence Goodwyfe, died 1641. She voted for Bob, too! So did Buddy Holly, Richie Valens, and the Big Bopper!
Even the pet cemetery voted for Bob! Look! Mr. and Mrs. Bananas! Humphrey Boa-gart!
Oh, my poor dead kitty! Please, not you too!
All right, Bob! Now it's personal!!
I have a plan. I think we can trap him.
You know, Sideshow Bob, I believe you when you say you're innocent...
Because we all know you're a naive pawn, puppet, if you will, of the most diabolical political genius Springfield has ever known -- Birchibald T. Barlow!
You don't have the intelligence to rig an election by yourself, do you?
You were Ronnie to his Nancy!
Ringo to his rest of the Beatles!
Bart! We did it! Now we get to keep our house, and you get to go back to fourth grade!
The spoon, Bart.
Oh no! We left Grampa back at the gas station.
What about Grampa?
Hello. "We're here." "Hi." etc.
Mom, is Dad gonna kill us?
Dad, look!
Dad!! Your hand is jammed in the toaster!!
Okilly dokilly.
Okay.
Are we taking the new Lexus to Aunt Patty and Selma's funeral today?
Bart, does it strike you as odd that Uter disappeared and suddenly they're serving us this mysterious food called Uterbräten?
Mom! Mom! You've gotta help! They're cooking kids in the school cafeteria!
Okay.
ONE --
CHORUS LINE OF PEOPLE / DANCIN' TILL THEY MAKE US STOP /
Remember Bart, I mean, "Dances in Underwear," we take the white man alive.
Don't be so hard on yourself, Bart. It's not your fault Jessica doesn't like you.
No, Bart. I just think you and Jessica are too different from each other to get along. She's a sweet, kind reverend's daughter and you're the devil's cabana boy.
I can't believe it, Bart. I'd always thought Jessica was so sweet.
You gotta give her up.
Bart, it's naive to think you can change a person. Except maybe that boy who works in the library.
Well read and just a little wild. If only someone could tame him.
Bart, be strong. You don't need that little hell cat.
So here's where you're hiding.
Bart, we can't just let her get away with this.
Yeah, well I eat Fruit Loops for breakfast.
I know most of you have already judged my brother guilty without any proof. But doesn't the Bible teach us "Judge not lest ye be judged," Reverend?
There is someone among us with a guilty conscience. After much soul searching I decided it would be wrong of me to name names, but I urge that guilty person here, under the eyes of God, to come forward to confess and save yourself from the torment of your own personal hell.
I am talking to the collection money thief. Only you can come forward and end this injustice.
Oh, what the heck, it was Jessica Lovejoy.
If you search her room, I am certain you will find the money.
That doesn't mean you don't have to do your book report. What if the weatherman is wrong?
Snowball fight!
I made the snowball from the frost in our freezer.
Grades are all I have. What could I be failing? I'm smart and a teacher's pet.
Gym?!! That's the stupidest thing I ever heard.
That's not fair... Why is Bart getting a present and I'm getting chewed out?
You mean those leagues where parents push their kids into vicious competition to compensate for their own failed dreams of glory?
Mom, this is really scary. I'm gonna get my first 'F' ever.
Ooooh.
Wow Bart, I'm so impressed you were able to give Milhouse a concussion.
Cut it out, Bart!
I have to join the team, or I'll get an "F" that will haunt me for the rest of my life.
He said it was just a name.
Please, Dad, I'll be fine.
You really think I did okay out there, Mom?
That's very nice, Dad, but it's wrong for you to reward violent, competitive behavior. However, I will sit up front with you if it's a fatherly gesture of love.
Lay off, guys. He's with me.
Don't worry, Bart, they won't bother you anymore.
Hey Milhouse, knock him down if he's in your way! Jimbo! Jimbo! Go for the face! Look! Ralph Wiggum lost his shin guard! Hack the bone! Hack the bone!
Ma. I think I'm all hugged out. Oh... one more.
Bart, what are you doing in my room?
Bart, that was your cherished childhood toy.
Bart, just get out of here.
That doesn't make sense.
Get out! Get out!
Okay. Then I'm going to start kicking air like this. And if any part of you should fill that air, it's your own fault.
Bart started it.
You'll have to do better than that tonight, chump.
Don't worry, I'm wearing my lucky rabbit's head.
You want a piece of me?
Hi Mom! Over here! Mom!
For the greater good.
Great game, Bart.
Ew. Bart, don't put the non-marshmallow pieces back in the box. They go in the trash.
How did you get tickets?
No,me!Takeme!Me!Me!Me!
Ashley Grant! You gave a talk on women's issues at my school on how we don't have to be second class citizens.
Eh, sorry about my unenlightened brother. He will make the next few hours a living hell.
I'm coming!
Dad, I don't understand. What is she saying you did?
Sorry, Dad. We do believe in you. We really do.
No.
The media's making a monster out of you because they don't care about the truth. All they care about is entertainment. Well you need a forum where they don't even know the meaning of the word "entertainment" -- Public Access Television.
Now it's time for the Innocence Report with Homer Simpson.
Dad, you did it! I am so proud of you.
Yay!
Dad, this clears you completely!
See?
There's you, Dad!
Yay!
Mom! Dad! Look, this biography of Peter Uebberoth is only ninety-nine cents! And I found the new Al Gore book!
Yeah, I hope it's as exciting as his other book "Rational Thinking: Reasonable Future!"
Oh, that's just a paranoid fantasy.
What do you think Mom and Dad are doing right now?
Hey, hey, hey! Stop it! Stop it! Why are you guys jumping to such ridiculous conclusions? Haven't you heard of Occam's Razor? "The simplest explanation is probably the correct one."
I don't know. Maybe they're all reverse vampires, and they have to get home before dark.
Dad!
No, Dad. I want to get down. This tire is filthy, and the steel belts are poking me.
No! No! No! No!!!
Dad, it's just that too much of your love can really be... scary.
That's what I assumed.
Look on the bright side, Dad. Did you know that the Chinese use the same word for crisis as they do for opportunity?
Hawaii!
C'mon, Bart. They're gonna pamper us. Not literally, of course.
See, Dad. I told you Mom would have problems.
Mom, are you feeling any better?
Mom, are you sure you don't want to discuss it?
But if we don't encourage her to vent her feelings, they can come out in other ways.
Mom, you've been cooking all night?
Mom, can we talk to you?
Uh, neat... anyway, Mom, maybe you should go into therapy.
Dad, Mom's getting worse. You have to take her to see a real psychiatrist. Look how tense she is.
Dad, I like picking beans with grandma.
Okay, I will.
Fine.
Hope I do.
Warning. Warning. Doctor Smith refuses to do his astro chores.
Danger, danger... My hooks are flailing wildly!
Ow! Cut it out, Bart.
What do they do there, Dad?
You don't know what they do there, do you?
You're a member of the Stonecutters, Grampa?
I still don't believe all the founding fathers were Stonecutters.
Remember, Dad. All glory is fleeting.
Beware the Ides of March.
Dad, I know you think you're happy now, but it's not gonna last forever.
Don't you see? Getting what you want all the time will ultimately leave you unfulfilled and joyless.
Dad, you're not with the Stonecutters now. There are no lackeys around to carry out your every...
You're experiencing spiritual emptiness because your power has isolated you from other human beings.
Well maybe you could reach out to the community and help other people.
Dad, that doesn't help people.
Yeah!
Or an inlet.
Why don't we all look at the photo album?
Aw.
Why aren't there any pictures of Maggie?
Good aim, Dad.
I think it's romantic. Throwing off the shackles of the workaday world and following a dream... of sorts.
Fine.
So Dad, were you excited that mom was pregnant?
Daaad!
I hope it's a girl.
You're worried about telling dad, aren't you, mom?
Well, you've been in my room for about four hours now.
I'm gonna get a snack and maybe go to the bathroom.
Mom! Make Dad tell the story right.
Oh.
So, you loved her right from the start.
Sounds like you had a good day today, Dad.
What!?
Don't you realize what's happening, Bart? Your comet is gonna collide with the earth and every living thing in its path will be killed.
But, Dad, don't you think...
No, Dad, I don't think...
Daaad, they're firing the rocket!
It blew up the bridge!
It's a pony.
We have a bomb shelter?
I'd get out, but I don't know where I am.
It's breaking up!
We're saved!
I can't believe that extra thick layer of pollution that I've actually picketed against is what burned up the comet.
Yeah, dad was right.
When Krusty wants to he can still blow 'em away.
Mom?
Yeah dad, it was bad enough when you tried to pass yourself off as Tom Bosley. But Krusty!
If there has to be a bastardized version of Krusty, I'm glad it's you.
Come on, shampoo! You can do it!
Yay! I won your stupid bathroom products race!
It never spins the other way. In the Northern hemisphere, water always drains counter-clockwise. It's called the Coriolis effect.
Yes, Bart. Why don't you try it and see?
Bart, water will only go the other way in the Southern Hemisphere.
Haven't you ever looked at your globe?
See, the Southern Hemisphere is made up of everything below the Equa... this line.
Uh-huh. In fact, in Rand-McNally, they wear hats on their feet, and hamburgers eat people.
Bart, you can't actually call these places! Don't you know how expensive international calls are?
Hey! I need that!
Office of the Solicitor General? "Office of the Prime Minister?" "Hopping Mad Collection Agency?" What is all this stuff?
Uh-oh. Bart, you better talk to Mom and Dad about this.
I know those words, but that sign makes no sense.
It's 6:45 A.M. next Wednesday. You may also be interested to know that it's summer here, not winter.
It says you can't bring in outside plants or animals. Any foreign creature you bring in could upset the environmental balance.
Bart, I'm sorry I'm gonna miss your public humiliation, but the Woolumbaloo Dirt Monument is just too exciting to pass up.
Mom, you said I could have one souvenir, right? Well I want a didgeridoo.
What?!
Thank you, Bart. I promise I won't make fun of you later for this.
I'm impressed that you were able to write so legibly on your own butt.
Well, that's what happens when you introduce foreign species into an ecosystem that can't handle them.
How could you forget? They had signs posted all over the library.
You're certainly in a good mood tonight, Dad.
How's Dad, today?
Hey Dad, whatcha doing?
Dad, that's a gag paper we got at the carnival.
I didn't turn it on. I thought you turned it on.
It is off.
That spikey-haired masked dancer is really something. I wonder who he is.
Bart, I am so proud of you. You showed a sensitive side of yourself that can never be erased. From this day forward we are kindred spirits.
This is horrible. People will start to avoid Springfield.
And... action!
Whatcha doin' Ma?
Ewww.
I like him. He's smart, he's sensitive, he's clearly not obsessed with his physical appearance...
Uh, I wasn't talking about you, Dad.
Mr. Sherman, I understand you have two Pulitzer prizes.
Wow. How many Pulitzer Prizes winners can do that?
THAT IS WHAT I'D TRULY LIKE TO BE/ 'CAUSE IF I WERE AN OSCAR MEYER WEINER...
Mr. Gumbel, this is a Girl Scout meeting.
How did you know my name?
Goodbye, Mr. Sherman. If I ever play Carnegie Hall, I'll give you a call.
I'll go to the first aid tent and tell them to plug in ye olde stomach pump.
Here bunny bunny! Here bunny!
Sorry, I don't believe in fortune telling. I should go.
Wow, you can see into the... present.
The Death Card.
Oh, that's cute.
That's bad?
Guess so.
Hey, watch it! / Watch it!
That man is instantly the most annoying person I've ever met. A soy-based snack will calm me down.
Aaagh. Him again.
Hello. I need Ecosystem of the Marsh, by Thompson.
No. It couldn't be...
That's the book I need. You'll probably take forever with it too.
I read at a 78th grade level.
Finished this page?
Why?
Pertaining to a process involving a randomly determined sequence of observations.
He can make you laugh with no more than a frantic flailing of his limbs.
Yes, not for their music, but for their tireless efforts to preserve historic buildings.
I'd love to. Can we get vegetarian meals at your parents' house?
That is good because eating animals is wrong.
When will the world learn?
I love these new planes.
Beautiful dinnerware, Mrs. Parkfield.
And I love that painting. Judging by the clothes, I'd say seventeenth century.
This place is so enchanting, Hugh. I love it here.
Yes, I will.
Hi Mom.
Guess what -- Hugh and I are getting married.
Mom, remember when I was little, we'd always plan my dream wedding and you always promised to, you know, well, keep Dad from ruining it?
Mom, it's a picture phone.
Oh.
Mom, picture phone.
It's not you, Milhouse. I just don't plan to ever get married.
Hey, I remember you. Mayor Quimby, right?
Just a couple more blocks to my house.
And if they are?
Dad!
Oh Hugh, thank you. You've been just wonderful through this entire ordeal.
Are you okay?
Uh, Mom, we've got my wedding dress fitting this afternoon. Maggie, if you're not doing anything, why don't you come with us?
Hugh should take it easy because of his fall.
All right, Dad! I'm sorry I left you alone with Homer and Bart.
How did you get that gash on your forehead?
Oh, you are so good to put up with all of this.
Mom, I feel kinda funny wearing white - I mean, Milhouse.
Okay, I've got something old - that's my pearl necklace. Something new is the wedding dress. Something borrowed is this antique brooch from Hugh's mother. Now I just need something blue.
Oh Mom. Thanks.
Hugh didn't have a bachelor party.
Hi, Dad.
Thanks.
Oh Dad...
Dad, you're babbling.
Hey, Dad. Did you forget to give those cufflinks to Hugh?
Well?
But you've been going on about these all week. I'm sure he just forgot.
What about my family's tradition?
But you promised my Dad you would.
I know they look a little silly, but his feelings will be hurt if you don't wear them.
Are you saying we won't see my family again?
I can't believe I'm hearing this. I don't want to cut my family out of my life.
That's a horrible thing to say.
Maybe. But I still love them. And I don't think you understand that.
Wow. Now that I know all this, isn't there any way to change the future?
I thought you said you'd tell me about my true love?
Hi, Dad.
Wow!
Wow. What else did you do, Dad?
Who took all my test papers off the refrigerator and tore them up?!
If it wasn't you, then who was it?
What's wrong, boy? Getting tired?
My Bongo drums!
What's Santa's Little Helper doing to that dog?
Can we keep Santa's girlfriend, Mom?
Look, it's twins!
How many more can there be?
Wow! Twenty-five puppies!
Mom, why do I have to wear a flea collar?
Nooooooo!
Is that what we do in this family? When someone becomes an inconvenience, we just get rid of them?!
They don't like being broken up.
Mom, don't give the puppies to him! He'll be mean to them!
Let's go find your babies!
Who knows what horrible things he's doing to those innocent little puppies?
He's giving them a bath!
Maybe we were wrong about Burns on this one.
He's gonna make a tuxedo out of our puppies!!!
Bart!
Ssh.
We've gotta get you outta here!
No Bart! What're you doing?
That's cats.
Bart, Look! A laundry chute!
I've got an idea!
Quick, let's get...
But they're ours! You stole them from us!
No, don't! Stay down, Monty! Don't get up! Stay down! Stay down, boy!
Nooo!!
Well, Mr. Burns, I hope you've realized the folly of killing innocent animals for fashion.
Oh, yeah. I didn't think this was for me.
I've never seen them fight like that, Bart. I'm worried that all this posturing and saber-rattling could lead to a teachers strike.
Oh no. Strike?
Horrible news, Mom!
Luckily I've prepared for this, so I'm not too worried.
Oh yeah.
But Dad, by striking they're trying to effect a change in management so that they can be happier and more productive.
I've got some textbooks, but without state approved syllabi and standardized testing my education can only go so far.
Relax? I can't relax. Nor can I yield, relent, or... Only two synonyms? Oh my God! I'm losing my perspicacity!
So if we were in school this week, what do you think we'd be learning?
Grade me! Look at me! Evaluate and rank me! Oh -- I'm good, good, good, and oh so smart! Grade me!
Pointless.
Well, my teacher's a nightmare. Three kids got sick from inhaling his ointment fumes, he confiscated everything made of tin, and then he sent us home early because he got his beard caught in the pencil sharpener.
There's no way I'll get into an Ivy League school now. At this rate I probably won't even get into Vassar.
Mom, I think he's serious.
How're you feelin', big brother?
I'm glad you're okay, Bart.
Bleeding Gums Murphy!
It's been a long time.
Ew. How'd you get a name like that?
Yeah.
My brother just had his appendix out.
He'll be fine.
What about your family?
It must be awful to be all alone in the world.
When was the last time you worked?
Your sax! Thank you so much!
Wow, you've had some career. Although the moral seems to be that a lifetime of jazz leaves you sad and lonely.
I sure am. Look!
I stopped brushing my teeth so I can play just like you!
LIFT ME, WON'T YOU LIFT ME / ABOVE THE OLD ROUTINE / MAKE IT NICE, PLAY IT CLEAN, JAZZMAN...
WHEN THE JAZZMAN'S TESTI-FYIN' A FAITHLESS MAN BELIEVES / HE CAN SING YOU INTO PARADISE / OR BRING YOU TO YOUR KNEES / JAZZMAN, OH JAZZMAN...
Hey, Bleeding Gums! I was great! And I owe it all to...
What happened to Mr. Murphy?
Bleeding Gums was my hero and I never got to tell him how I felt.
But he was the only person who had the same love for music that I do.
Thank you. Oh Dad, why did he have to die?
Uh huh.
Yeah.
Oh, Dad!
How come?
Uh, maybe I need to talk to somebody with a little more age and wisdom.
Grampa!
It's only Maggie.
That's only the cat.
That's Maggie again, Grampa.
How come it won't stop hurting?
Isn't anybody gonna show up?
No! It was Bleeding Gums Murphy.
Saxophone! He was a jazz musician.
You didn't know him! Nobody knew him! But he was a great man! And I won't rest until all of Springfield knows the name of Bleeding Gums Murphy!
Mom, I want to honor Bleeding Gums' memory, but I don't know where to start.
Hi, I have a request. I would like you to do a tribute to Bleeding Gums Murphy, please.
What if I could find it?
Gee, your station has a lot of problems.
Two hundred and fifty dollars! But I need that album to honor the memory of Bleeding Gums Murphy.
Where am I gonna get five hundred dollars?
Bart! I can't believe it... But why?
Oh thank you. But five hundred dollars! You'll never see that much money again!
I got the album!
I did the best I could, Bleeding Gums.
That was for you, Bleeding Gums.
I don't want you to go!
Good-bye.
Yay!
WHEN THE JAZZMAN'S TESTI-FYIN' A FAITHLESS MAN BELIEVES / HE CAN SING YOU INTO PARADISE / OR BRING YOU TO YOUR KNEES / JAZZMAN, TAKE MY BLUES AWAY ...
One more time!
Hey Mom, is this how you caught him?
Mom, was catching that guy the most incredibly exciting thing you've ever done?
Mom, if someone shot at the mayor, would you have to throw yourself in front of him and take the bullet?
Whatever you do, mom, we'll be proud of you.
As long as it's constitutional.
So, Mom, what are you gonna do with your day off?
Mom's police tape isn't a toy, Dad.
Mom, I know your intentions are good, but aren't the police a protective force that maintains the status quo for the wealthy elites? Don't you think we ought to attack the roots of social problems instead of jamming people into overcrowded prisons?
Bust 'im, Mom! / Get 'im, Mom! / Nail 'im! / You can do it!
It's been going downhill ever since the lake caught fire.
I don't even want any. I just bought a pity glass...
Tutoring? The only thing Bart's teaching is guerilla combat in Shelbyville.
No, Mom! Bart and some kids ran off to wage war on Shelbyville.
I'd like to start a jazz program for the music department. We've got a really great instructor lined up...
He's ready to give up the drudgery of the professional mambo circuit and settle into a nice teaching job.
Let's go now, Mr. Puente.
It is unfeasible to resurrect the dead, Bart. And even if the Three Stooges were alive, I doubt they'd want to hang around with you.
Oh, no. that's awful, Mr. Puente. What? Oh. He owns the nuclear power plant. Yeah, I'd like to settle his hash, too.
Dad, how can you work for a man like Mr. Burns?
"Marge, Bart, Lisa, and Maggie." Dad, this doesn't have your name on it.
Sorry, Grampa. It's just that, for a second, it looked like Dad had melted.
He robbed the school of music!
Everyone in Springfield had a reason to shoot Mr. Burns. Even us.
Bart, he broke your dog's legs. Grampa, he destroyed your home. And Dad, well, you kind of went berserk when he couldn't remember your name.
Yeah, I was just getting to me. Because of Mr. Burns, they canceled my jazz program, and my friend Tito Puente got fired. But I could never shoot someone.
Could not!
Could not!
Could not!
Could not!
We don't have an outhouse.
Look at Burns' suit. Yeesh.
Actually, Mom, in 95% of cases, it is. The rest of the time, it's usually some deranged lunatic who did it for no reason.
Well, I don't think anyone in this family is capable of attempted murder.
Nancy Drew says that all you need to solve a mystery is an inquisitive temperament and two good friends. And I've got an inquisitive temperament! Maybe I could help solve this!
Mr. Burns is the richest man in town. Maybe it was about money.
Hey! I said that. My name is Lisa Simpson, and I made a chart of all the suspects in the Burns case. Look.
Tito Puente?
Well, he did vow revenge. But I can't see him doing something illegal -- he's in show business! He's a celebrit--
Chief Wig-gum... Don't eat... the clues.
This suit burns better. Look.
Better... look... burns... suit.
Burns' suit! Burns' suit!
Hey, Chief Wiggum, what are you doing? What's going on?
They have Simpson D.N.A. It could've come from any of us. Except you, since you're a Bouvier.
Okay, Mom. Anyway, my point is, the evidence isn't as concrete as it seems. Like those fingerprints. They could've gotten on the gun some other way.
Are you sure you don't want me to hold one of your ice cream cones?
And we don't even know whose gun that was. Maybe somebody planted it there to frame Dad.
The scene of the crime! There must be something here that can clear Dad.
That's it! Oh, Mr. Pigeon, I'd kiss you if you weren't swimming with disease.
So, the D.N.A. was right. It must've been... Oh, Dad!
Stop! Don't shoot my Dad! He's innocent. He wouldn't hurt a fly!
Then with your last ounce of strength you pointed to W and S.
Or from your point of view, M and S... Maggie Simpson.
Yeah, that's how fast Grampa is shrinking.
Cheer up, Bart. Milhouse is still gonna need a true friend. Someone to tell him he's great, someone to rub lotion on him, someone to hurl whiskey bottles at when he's feeling low.
Wow, Mom. You didn't have to go to this much trouble.
Mom, you fuss over us way too much.
Hey, c'mon! Those are prescription shoes! I need them!
No I don't!
Ow! Mah tug!
Printhipal Thkinner, I need thum shoes.
I don't know. They should be here.
You don't understand. Mom and Dad take good care of us.
That was a baby tooth... it was loose...
Yeah. It seems like our house, but everything's got a creepy Pat Boone-ish quality to it.
Well, when was the last time Dad gave her that kind of attention?
I thought I could ride this thing out, but everything's just too weird here.
And they read Newsweek instead of nothing.
Yeah. The sun is still out.
You know, Maggie hasn't been a Simpson as long as us. I think she's beginning to forget Mom and Dad.
Or the way Dad used to call the radio station with fake traffic tips?
They're ten feet away and we can't even talk to them. I wish I could tell them how much I miss them.
Yay!
We give up.
Uh, actually, the... We were never baptized.
You're gonna be Bart Flanders.
Let's see. Dirt... dirt... Well, there wasn't really much dirt.
Oh boy! Really?
Nooooo! It's dripping funny-smelling water all over me!
Where'd you get five bucks? I want five bucks.
What? How could you do that? Your soul is the most valuable part of you!
Well, whether or not the soul is physically real, Bart, it's the symbol of everything fine inside us.
Bart, your soul is the only part of you that lasts forever. For five dollars, Milhouse could own you for a zillion years.
Hmmm... Pablo Neruda said laughter is the language of the soul.
I think we should do a test.
Well?
That's creepy, Bart. I think you really did lose your soul.
How're the Southwestern Pizza Fingers?
I would like to say grace. Lord, have mercy on my soul, and Mom's soul, and Dad's soul, and Maggie's soul, and let every soul in Christendom...
With the change in my piggy bank.
Not in any of the ones you know about.
Happy to do it. But you know, Bart, some philosophers believe that nobody is born with a soul -- that you have to earn one through suffering and thought and prayer, like you did last night.
We're going to Storytown Village, Grampa. It's an amusement park for babies.
Awwww.
Awwww.
AWWWW.
Oh, you are so cute! Yes you are! You are! I just love you.
I can't eat this. I can't eat a poor little lamb!
What's the difference between this lamb and the one that kissed me?
No, I can't! I can't eat any of them!
No.
NO!
Dad... those all come from the same animal.
Oh, my family just doesn't understand my newfound vegetarianism.
Compared to them, the public schools are a haven of enlightenment.
Why does it talk like a lamb?
Ah... Miss Hoover? I don't think I can dissect an animal. I think it's wrong.
Ah, excuse me? Isn't there anything here that doesn't have meat in it?
Well I believe you're required to provide a vegetarian alternative.
Do you remember when you lost your passion for this work?
I never realized before, but some Itchy and Scratchy cartoons send the message that violence against animals is funny.
Come to Homer's BBBQ. The Extra B is for BYOBB.
Dad, can't you have some other kind of party? One where you don't serve meat?
Mom.
It's tomato soup served ice cold!
They can't seriously expect us to swallow that tripe!
Stop it! Stop it! Don't you realize you've just been brainwashed by corporate propaganda?
Wait Dad! Good news, everyone! You don't have to eat meat. I made enough Gazpacho for all!
It's bad enough they're all eating meat. They don't have to rub it in my face.
Oh, then you must think I'm a monster.
I'm never ever apologizing because I was standing up for a just cause and you were wrong, wrong, wrong! Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to my room.
Bart, tell Dad I'll only pass the syrup if it won't be used on any meat product.
Why don't you just eat him, Dad.
That's it. I can't live in a house with this prehistoric carnivore. I am out of here.
Yes. I'm gonna marry a carrot.
The whole world wants me to eat meat. I can't fight it anymore.
THERE! IS EVERYBODY HAPPY NOW?!
Tofu?
But why, Apu?
That's cute.
Wow, a secret staircase? But what do you do if somebody wants a non-alcoholic beer?
Oh, Apu! It's beautiful!
That's why I ran away from home.
Wow, Paul McCartney! I read about you in history class. But where's your wife, Linda?
Apu, I'm sure the last thing they want to talk about is...
Ewwww.
When will all those fools learn that you can be perfectly healthy simply eating vegetables, fruits, grains, and cheese?
You don't eat cheese, Apu?
I guess I have been pretty hard on a lot of people. Especially my dad. Thanks, you guys.
Wow, that'd be great!
Hi, Dad. Looking for me?
Actually Dad, this time I was wrong...
...too.
While I was gone, I got some really good advice from Paul and Linda McCartney.
I still stand by my beliefs, but I can't defend what I did. I'm sorry I messed up your barbecue.
Hey, what's that in his footprint?
Hmmmmm.
If your advertising agency created all those giant characters, you must know how to stop them.
Like that old woman who couldn't find the beef?
But people can't help looking at them. They're wrecking the town.
Hey, Springfield! Are you suffering from the heartbreak of monsteritis? Then take a tip from Mr. Paul Anka...
GUARANTEE VOID IN TENNESSEE.
It worked! They're all dead!
Don't make us poke your eyes out, Dad.
Oh my God! Bart, Groundskeeper Willie was in my nightmare, too! But he got me with hedge-clippers!
Mom, Dad -- Martin died at school today!
Bart, don't you realize what this means? The next time we fall asleep we could die!
It's no use, Bart. We can't stay up forever.
Okay, but promise you won't be grouchy.
Bart, you're in trouble! Wake up!
I'm not asleep, I'm just resting my eye-- uh oh.
Good-bye, Bart!
You saved us, Maggie!
I don't know, Bart. Something tells me Willie's still out there, and that he could come back any time in any form and kill us in ways we can't even imagine.
Sorry, dad. This is our spot.
Well, we're calling it now.
Um, I would also like to take your coat.
No.
Well, where's my dad?
Sorry.
Dad--
I must protest. You're abusing a program intended to help the unfortunate.
Have you told mom about this?
Da-ad!
Obesity is really unhealthy. Any doctor will tell you that.
Neat!
Mom, were you ever planning to step in and put a stop to this?
I like school.
I would if I could.
Eww! Mo-om!
This whole thing is really creepy. Are you sure you won't talk to dad?
Well, maybe you'll have to hurt his feelings. The longer he lives like this, the harder it'll be to go back.
Dad?
Umm... Mom just baked a cake.
Dad, what are you doing down there?
Hey, leave my dad alone. Just because he's overweight doesn't mean he's bad. He's a sweet man and he has real feelings.
Shouldn't you be working?
Hey, my dad may have gained a little weight, but he's not some kind of food-crazed maniac.
I think it's ironic that Dad saved the day, while a slimmer man would have fallen to his death.
Hi, everybody.
Mom! Dad! Bart ran into a door frame and bit his tongue!
This is so weird. It's like something out of Dickens or "Melrose Place."
Oh, I just keep them out to bug Bart.
Me, too!
More like pre-school.
Me, too.
Oh, you didn't dumb it down! You said "rapport!"
There. Now no one should be able to hear us.
All right, we don't need the dryer.
Just shut up and listen. There's something fishy about Grandma. Whenever we ask her where she's been all this time, she changes the subject. And just now when a police car drove by, she ran into the house.
Mona Simpson, Mona Stevens, Martha Stewart, Penelope Olsen, Muddy Mae Suggins...
These are the calling cards of a con artist.
All right, then we'll call your husband: Grampa.
How did you survive?
No, Dad, it's a rhetorical question.
Dad, do you even know what "rhetorical" means?
You know, Gramma, I used to think maybe I was adopted. I couldn't understand how I fit into this family. Now that I met you, I suddenly make a lot of sense.
Gramma, have you ever thought about moving back to Springfield?
Don't you remember, dad?
He framed Krusty. He tried to kill Aunt Selma. He rigged an election.
Wow! / Air show! / Cool! /
I wanna meet the first female Stealth bomber pilot. During the Gulf War she destroyed seventy mosques and her name is Lisa, too!
Can I fly it?
Yay!
Da-ad! Why aren't you looking?
Mom! Mom, you're stepping on my heels and knocking my shoes off!
Bart, no!
Thanks, Mom.
Bart! Bart! What are you doing?! We've got to get out of here!
Ow! C'mon, Mom and Dad are waiting!
Huh? Hurry up, Mom and Dad are probably worried sick.
High-toned voice. Bart, that's it. I know where Sideshow Bob is hiding.
When Bob broadcast that message, his voice was higher than normal. And what makes your voice high?
Helium. Sideshow Bob is in the Duff Blimp!
Don't you see? That would be taking the easy way out --
He's getting away!
Mom! I found Sideshow Bob's hide-out and I got a secret message to the police and I had a blimp fall on me and I was in an atomic blast but I'm okay now!
Goodnight, Mom.
Here we go again!
I will, Mom.
Bedbugs?
I'll be Lisui... the devil-may-care rocket pilot.
...and you'll be Bartron, the evil robot from Mars, gone berserk.
Do I understand you correctly, Bartron? Do you wish me to release you from the helmet of evil thoughts with my enchanted space wand?
I will do it, Bartron. Who knows what mysterious forces will be unleashed?
Oh no. Inside, the evil Bartron is a horrible mutant boy.
We'll be safe here till Mom and Dad, the evil overlords gets home.
Thanks.
Then, with your last ounce of strength, you pointed to W and S. Waylon Smithers.
Hey, I thought Krusty was Jewish...
Christmas is a time when people of all religions come together to worship Jesus Christ.
Hmm. That looks entertaining.
I think I'm having chest pains.
I wanna look at the pets and write things on the typewriters and see if the new dictionaries are in!
I admit I haven't known Mom as long as you have, but I know when she's really upset. Her heart won't just wipe clean like this bathroom counter-top. It absorbs everything that touches it, like this bathroom rug.
Goodnight, Mom.
Mom, this fake snow is making me dizzy!
Bart got a present early? Then I should get a present early! I want a present!
This is the worst Christmas ever.
We are not wieners!
Now you are the one who is "it."
Red, green, yellow, orange! I remember all of these!
Actually this is one of the nine states where Mr. Bush claims residency, Dad. I wouldn't have voted for him, but it's nice to have a celebrity in the neighborhood.
No, Grampa, don't!
No, let's go to the Nature Company. They've got a TV assembled by Hopi Indians!
Who are they?
Hey, Mom! There's something in here!
But it's marked down from $2,800!
Oh, you look so sophisticated -- just like Mary Hart!
C'mon, Mom, you never treat yourself to anything.
Just buy it. You don't have to rationalize everything.
Do I have to go? That country club is a hotbed of exclusionist snobs and status-seeking social-climbers.
The rich are different from you and me.
I don't know what Mom's thinking. This whole country club scene is so decadent...
All these - spoiled - brats - and - their - smug, complacent parents. It just reinforces...the unspoken - class - system - of... horses - sitting - on - their - high... horses I'm sorry. I gotta go!
Mom, look! I found something more fun than complaining!
Mom, did you like horses when you were my age? 'Cause I heard--
Mom, do you want to know the fifteen reasons I like horses better than cars? One: a horse never--
You know how a horse goes like this? Mom? Like this? Mom?
Mom! Mom! Mom! Mom! Mom!
Yeah, you look great! You can do anything with that sewing machine.
You mean it's a new dress? Where did you get it?
Wow, two finds in one store! What are the odds?
How much did it cost?
With tax or without?
So with tax, how much was it?
You look nice, is all.
I'm gonna ask people if they know their servants' last names, or, in the case of butlers, their first.
I won't say anything controversial.
It's okay. Those snobs never would've made us members anyway.
Their tap water tasted better than ours!
I'm going to contribute my money to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
Mom?
I got their new Thrifty Saver Savings account. 2.3% annual interest instead of the normal 2.25. So a year from now I'll have an extra nickel.
Thank you.
It is a tragedy for all us kids. But, Bart, you can't beat yourself up.
You gotta hand it to Krusty.
Oh my God! Krusty's shoes!
Bart, you're seeing Krusty everywhere because you want to tell him you're sorry for causing his death. Would it help if I told you you're not responsible for Krusty's death?
Well I can't. You'll just have to learn to live with your mental problem.
No. We're looking for this man, Krusty the Clown.
It's hopeless, Bart. We've searched up and down these docks, from Pier One to that Pier 1 by Pier Seventeen.
"Rory B. Bellows, Slip Eight!" Let's go!
Hey! You've got a pacemaker scar just like Krusty!
But we saw your plane crash...
Or kill us.
Yeah, Krusty doesn't want to be a clown. He's happy just being another blue-collar bozo.
What about that great feeling you get from knowing you're better than regular people?
Yay!
How about town crier? You'd be great at that.
Hi, I'm Lisa Simpson. I'm here to research a report on Jebediah.
I was right about Jebediah, and now I can prove it.
Wow!
The Secret Confessions of Jebediah Springfield? "Know ye who read this: there is more to my life than history records."
--ha ha ha ha ha. Oh my God! Our town hero is a fraud! "I write this confession so that my infamy will live on long after my body has succumbed to my infectious diphtheria."
Oh, it's just the excitement of studying Jebediah.
Just when I was getting over my Chester A. Arthritis.
Uh, no.
What would you say if I told you Jebediah Springfield wasn't as great as he's cracked up to be? Look.
Jebediah was really a vicious pirate named Hans Sprüngfeld. His tongue was bitten off by a Turk in a grog house fight!
He had a prosthetic tongue made out of silver.
He was one of the evillest men of the 1780's. He even tried to kill George Washington!
The next time Hans Sprüngfeld was seen, he had changed his name to Jebediah Springfield.
You do?
Aw, thanks, Dad.
But it's all true!
Miss Hoover thought I made the whole thing up. She called me a P.C. thug.
That won't help, Dad. No one's ever going to believe me.
We could?
No baseball bat.
Hi, Mr. Hurlbut.
That's Jebediah's secret confession. It proves he was a fraud.
But it explains why there's no record of Jebediah before 1795! He was Hans Sprüngfeld until then!
I'm not going to give up. I refuse to believe that everyone refuses to believe the truth.
I'd like 25 copies on goldenrod, 25 on canary, 25 on saffron, and 25 on paella.
You don't have to help me with this, Dad.
Hi, Apu. Can I put this poster in your window?
He wouldn't let me put it up.
Jebediah Springfield was nothing more than an evil, blood-thirsty pirate who hated this town!
That's a myth that got mixed up with the truth.
I hope you know you're sponsoring a celebration for a murderous pirate!
There is one way: get the silver tongue. If Jebediah's who I say he is, then it should still be in his grave.
Yes.
Don't forget to look in his shoes. When I lose something, sometimes it turns up in my shoes.
I was so sure...
Oh, Dad, I'm really sorry. I know how much you wanted to be in the parade.
I-I-I...
General Washington?!
But I've caused so much trouble already, General Washington. I can't go on.
No! Not Janey! She'll pack the Supreme Court with boys!
Oh, let me help you, George Washington, I still want to help you.
The missing piece of the puzzle... I've got it!
That's because you stole it!
But when you found the truth, you couldn't take it! You couldn't stand that you'd devoted your life to a fraud! So you covered it up! Didn't you? Didn't you?!
Stop it! Where's the silver tongue?!
You did. Until I realized that Jebediah's confession was saying more than he meant it to.
How else could he have gotten this?
Exactly.
People of Springfield, I, uh, I don't know quite how to say this...
I did a lot of research on Jebediah Springfield and...
Jebediah Springfield was... Jebediah was... great. I, um, just wanted to say that I've done some research and, uh, he was great.
Because the myth of Jebediah has value, too. It's brought out the best in everyone in this town. Regardless of who said it, "a noble spirit embiggens the smallest man."
You know, Dad, assisting Mr. Burns could give your career a real shot in the arm.
Mo-omm! I just said that!
Bart, leave Simpson alone.
Simpson! I need a ride to the library.
What happened, Dad?
Are you sure he's dead? Maybe you just really really hurt him.
Don't worry, Dad. Mr. Smithers is a resilient man. I'm sure he can get a great job at any corporation he wants.
Did he die?
Will do.
Bye, Mom. Bye, Dad.
We've got to get seats for the Itchy and Scratchy parade.
Hey, the comic book store's still open!
Mom, there's a weird smell and a lot of cursing coming from the basement. And Dad's upstairs.
It's one of those campy 70's throwbacks that appeals to Generation X'ers.
So it's true. Some cartoons do encourage violence.
And soon.
The judge says it's okay as long as you pay Mr. Lampwick royalties.
You'll get more royalties.
Yes, but...
I give up. There's nothing we can do.
Okay.
Yes, well, technically everything worked out all right. But...
You're right, Mom. I'm sure if we put our minds to it we can solve this one too.
Bart! Look at this!
I don't know. But it looks like you might have a little competition all of a sudden.
I don't understand it. We're always the ones who solve these problems.
Dad, what's a "muppet?"
Hi. I remember you from such film strips as "Locker Room Towel Fight: The Blinding of Larry Driscoll."
Ah-huh.
Santa?
I still don't understand why you get to stay home and watch Mom work.
I've signed numerous petitions to shut down that plant.
Bart can take my place at the plant!
Well, how about Aunt Patty and Aunt Selma at the D.M.V.?
No, thanks. Do you have any fruit?
Why are there so many burnt-out ones?
Maybe we can make your job more fun... What are those?
Well, what if we used our imaginations...?
Houston, we have a problem. Homer 13 is spinning out of control!
I'm going after him!
It's not fair! I'm the best student in school. How come I never heard about this competition?
That's not Latin. Mom, Bart's faking it.
I'm learning about owls.
Sure I would! I can always learn about owls this summer at Bird Camp.
Security guards?
Sure!
Why do you need me?
Ready!
Woo hoo!
Zagnut bar, Mr. Smithers? Razzles? Skittles? Whatchamacallit? Twizzlers?
We could have a slumber party.
ThanksMombye!
Okay. Time for truth or dare. You go first.
Who do you love most: me, Bart, or Maggie?
Okay... Why don't you...
Hmmm... Truth.
Da-ad!
Dad, you tell everybody everything. Even Moe knew when I threw up on the dentist.
Okay. I like...
Langdon Alger.
Nobody does! He's very quiet and enjoys puzzles. But that still doesn't mean you can tell anyone!
Thanks, Dad. Oh, this has been the best Spring Break ever!
So how's the National Grammar Rodeo, Bart?
I knew it! I knew it because why would they have our National Grammar Rodeo in another nation?! Oh, Bart, you're going to be in sooo much trouble when--
Hmm... You could travel for free if you were a stewardess. Well, how badly do you want to get home? All right, all right, how about a courier? They travel for free, too. No, that's a terrier. They're dogs.
But Bart, that'll cost a fortune.
Whee.
There's something troubling me, Dad...but I don't think I can tell you because it's a secret.
Langdon Alger? Oh, I don't like him anymore... Okay, but you've got to promise you won't get mad or tell anyone, especially Bart.
Bart rented a car with a phony driver's license and drove Milhouse, Nelson, and Martin to a wig outlet in Knoxville and the car got crushed and they're out of money and they can't get home and Bart's working as a courier and just came back from Hong Kong.
No, no! Then he'll know I told! Dad, you said I could trust you.
It's in Tennessee, right next to the Oak Ridge Nuclear Facility, birthplace of the atomic bomb.
...and Bart could be the courier!
No! Don't use your real name, or Bart will know!
Mom, Dad threw his beer can at the Miracle Gro guy on TV. Can I recycle it?
Waaa! Uhh! There's gum in my hair!
Mo-om! Someone threw gum in my hair!
No, it's somebody's gross gum! Get it out! Ow! Ow! It's pulling out my hairs!
Why me? Yuk! I smell like a sandwich.
Gaaah!
No, I've got gum in my hair!
My scalp hurts from horsefly bites.
That sounds okay...
Ah! Ah! Ah! Stop! Stop!
Does the whole town have to hear about this?
Cut it off, but be careful.
I love it! I finally look like a real person! Thanks!
He's down there.
You already put him in a home.
No! Old people deserve our respect! Look at Jacques Cousteau and Goldie Hawn. You wouldn't shut them away like second-class citizens.
Uh, Grampa, maybe I should moisten your washcloth...
Wow, he's even more agitated than usual. Maybe we should let him stay.
Bart's room.
That's specious reasoning, Dad.
By your logic, I could claim that this rock keeps tigers away.
It doesn't work.
It's just a stupid rock.
But I don't see any tigers around here, do you?
Actually, Dad, it's the smallest tax increase in history.
That's the Home-Owner Tax.
I don't see how you can support Proposition 24, Dad.
But immigration is what America's all about. Even the Simpson family immigrated to America. Right, Grampa?
Mom, you're the greatest. Can I have this licorice?
There was an amnesty declared for people who've been here as long as you! That means you can take the citizenship test!
All right! Now you've got all the Simpsons behind you, Apu!
That's it!
No, not what he said -- what he is. Grandfather. As in "grandfather clause". Apu, how long ago did your visa expire?
Da-ad! You're not pointing anywhere near Springfield. It's over here, Apu.
Perfect. Let's roll.
You know, Apu, in a way, all Americans are immigrants -- except Native Americans.
No, I mean American Indians.
No, I mean--
Dad? Please just drive the car, Dad.
Bart, no!
Dad, you forgot to pick up Milhouse!
What are you talking about?
Bart, these look real.
Wow, it's like Woodstock. Only with advertisements everywhere and tons of security guards.
Generation X may be shallow, but at least they have tolerance and respect for all people.
It smells like Otto's jacket.
Wearing a Jamaican hat makes a bold statement about your connection to reggae music.
It may be bleak, but this music is really getting to the crowd.
Dad, are you okay?
Shh, Mom. Dad needs our support.
That song is so lame.
No.
No.
No.
How else would you know?
The reward for a year's worth of toil and sacrifice: Retrospecticus.
Oops.
You know something, BeeZee? I think you're right.
In the beginning of the school year, each of you received a colored ticket. I hope everyone still has theirs.
Mr. Estes, the publications advisor. I edited the whole thing.
Hey, will you guys sign my yearbook?
Wha?
I don't get it. Straight A's, perfect attendance, Bathroom Timer... I should be the most popular girl in school.
Heyyy, great, a friend... or a companion... ... stuffed animal...
Friends? Hah! These are my only friends...
Grown-up nerds like Gore Vidal. And even he's kissed more boys than I ever will.
Mom, why don't I have any friends?
We are best friends, Mom. But I'm a kid. I need friends my own age, too.
Be myself? I've been myself for eight years and it hasn't worked. Look at all these dorky clothes... A bathing cap... nose plugs...
A microscope at the beach -- ugh, what was I thinking?
Maybe you're getting stronger.
Bye-bye Lisa Simpson.
It must be exciting to make a different set of beds.
Well, it's kind of funny... with all the craziness and confusion and mishegoss of packing... Ha... I forgot to pack.
Exactly.
Uh, Mom, I'm kinda trying to go for a different look this year.
Mom, come here. Bring money.
Um, if it's okay with you, Mom, I'd rather go find some kids.
I wonder where all the kids are.
Hey, a library! No, I can't. That's the old nerdy Lisa.
I don't see any kids at all. It's like they ditched me in advance.
Only kids are that incoherent!
Like, you know, whatever. Like, you know, whatever.
Hey, what's hap--
Okay, okay, okay... not your fault, it's a bird thing. You don't control the birds -- you will someday, but not now.
Hi.
A compliment!
Thanks. Umm... You guys skate?
I think I know a place you can skate that's virtually deserted.
Like, you know, whatever.
Didn't. It's Lisa.
Me? Unlikely. My goony brother's always going to libraries. I usually hang out in front.
Well, it beats doing stuff.
Okay... thanks. That's very, uh... "rad" of you.
That's my dorky little brother, Bart --tholomew.
That's a hermit crab. When she outgrows her old shell, she finds a new one that's a better fit.
Don't be afraid, little friend. You'll be the most popular crab on the beach.
Aww, a gift from my favorite crustacean.
No. No, I heard it on "Baywatch."
Well, we could do something fun. Um, how 'bout a beach party?
Don't have a cow, man!
Aye carumba!
For me? Wow, my first real friend... ...ship bracelet. I don't have anything for you... ...except this necklace I made.
I just know we're gonna be friends forever.
What's he doing here?
My yearbook! No!
I know exactly who I am. I am the sister of a rotten, jealous, mean little sneak.
You cost me my only friends! You ruined my life!
Being myself didn't work... Being someone else didn't work... Maybe I just wasn't meant to have friends.
Okay, you found out I'm an over-achieving bookworm. So whatever mean prank you're pulling, just finish it up and send me a Polaroid. I'm going to sleep.
Does this mean you still want to be friends? Even though I tried to cover up my nerdish... leanings?
Ohmigod, Bart, look!
This is the most thoughtful thing anybody ever --
Bart!
Oh. Thanks, Bart.
Uh huh.
Did you hear that, Bart?
No. She's sleeping with
me.
What's up there? / Is it a monster? / We have to know! / What's the secret?
Hurry up! Mom and Dad'll be home soon!
Bart, do you think it's safe?
MomDadWeSawSomethingInTheAtticAnd --
So I have two brothers?
I believe they prefer to be called "conjoined twins."
I'll start with Radio Shack.
Mom, Hugo's eating his napkin!
This tooth will be perfect for my science project.
Science has already proven the dangers of smoking, alcohol and Chinese food. But I can still ruin soft drinks for everyone.
Ow! What's that supposed to prove?
Ow!
Ow! Stupid Bart!
Oh boy! Mold! That's science-fair paydirt!
Hmmm. Looks about the same.
Ah.
Tiny little people!
My God. I've created life!
Ooo, waffles!
Hey, these aren't waffles -- these are just square pancakes!
That waffle iron's been in the shop forever.
So, how are my little stone age tub dwellers? Oh my gosh!
They're evolving so quickly! They've already reached the Renaissance... Wait! One of them is nailing something to the door of the cathedral! I've created Lutherans!
Wow, it's almost like seeing into the future!
Ba-rt stop it!
Oh, my poor little guys. That Bart is so rude.
Well, you practically destroyed their whole world!
Your world is incredible! And you speak English!
You think I'm God?
The devil? What devil?
Oh, no-no-no-no, you don't understand. Bart's just my brother.
Listen, I can take care of everything. All you have to do is unshrink me.
Bart, noooo!
Principal Skinner, wait! I created the universe! Give me the gift certificate!
Oh, great. I'm stuck in this lousy tub for the rest of my life.
Shouldn't you people be groveling? And bring me some shoes. Nice ones!
I'm sorry, Dad. I just find that very cute.
Yeah. Did you notice how the people weren't shoving or knocking each other down? I've never been to a place like that before.
Yayyy!
It says here one of these giant redwood trees can provide enough sawdust to cover an entire day's worth of vomit at Disneyland.
Oooh! Aaah! Ohhh!
Oooh!
Wildflowers! We don't have you in Springfield!
Hello, Mr. Chipmunk! You're a Northern Reticulated Chipmunk! Yes, you are! You are so reticulated!
Hi, Mrs. Owl! You're out kind of early!
Oh! The whole forest is blooming!
Excuse me.
Oh, my eyes are burning!
Oh, little chipmunk friend. I'm allergic to everything!
I'm allergic to everything here. My nose is so stuffed up, I can't even taste Mom's delicious boiled celery.
That's an electric nostril groomer.
Mom's right, Dad. The odds against you winning are a thousand to one.
Those are the odds they're giving in Vegas.
What are you talking about?
No.
What a perfect outing for a beautiful autumn day!
It's not foilage, Mom. It's foliage. Fo-li-age.
He tried to kill our puppies.
He's not a drifter, Mom. That's Mr. Burns's son, Larry.
Hey, that reminds me, Mom -- Buckingham Palace called. They want their hat back.
Hey, I think I got a Pai Gow!
We've got to go down there and help Dad!
Who's playing that music?
Da-ad! V-chip, V-chip!
Oh, no!
...And we'd be doing our part for the environment! Plus, we'd get to clean up all those cute animals.
Oh, Mom, please! You can make this my birthday and Christmas presents!
Yes I do! Sure I do! Look!
I'm gonna rescue a baby seal! And then I'm gonna save an otter!
You mean there's nothing left to clean?
Oh, there's something unsatisfying about scrubbing these rocks. And I think I know what it is...
Faster, Mom, faster!
How was what? What?
It's no time for school.
Mom, calm down. The party's not for another three hours.
You're a grand old flag / You're a high flying flag / Etc...
Hi, Dad. You know, there's buns in the cabinet.
Oh, okay. Can I stay up?
You've done a lot of crazy stuff over the years and she's stood by you. Why would she leave you now?
You mean like your poker shack out in the swamp?
She knows.
You're very lucky to have Mom.
Who does Nelson think he's impressing, anyway, acting so cool all the time?
Why do you have to be such a pain all the time? Don't you realize you're getting a bad reputation?
It does not!
Hey!
No, sir. I was laughing at something outside.
Oh, how does Bart do this every week?
It's your fault! I accidentally laughed at your immature prank.
Thanks, but I prefer the honest way.
Wow, that was a good idea. And I can't believe it came from Nelson.
Milhouse, I've never told anyone this kind of thing before... but I've never felt this way before. I think I have a crush...
...on Nelson Muntz.
But I bet underneath, he's a sweet, sensitive person -- like you. I guess you could say I want to bring out the Milhouse in Nelson.
I like you, too, Milhouse, but not in that way. You're more like a big sister.
Would you do me a favor? When you get back to class, just give him this note.
Please?
Milhouse, I'm so sorry...
Nelson! Um... that note Milhouse gave you... it wasn't from him. It was from... me.
I don't know why I like you. I just do. So... what do you think?
Well... would you like to come over to my house after school?
Oh, you've got to see this, it's so cute what she does. Be the baby, kitty. Go on, be the baby.
Snowball! I - don't - understand. She loves to climb in h--
It's okay, I invited him over. Nelson's my new... friend.
Please don't ruin this for me, Bart. I think he's starting to like me!
Oh, please. Milhouse likes Vaseline on toast.
"Nuke the whales?" You don't really believe that, do you?
Touché.
You play the guitar?
Would you... play a song for me?
I wish I could laugh at the idea of a teacher being decapitated.
Hardly.
How am I supposed to get home?
I feel so stupid, Mom. Nelson's not right for me at all. And I don't think he ever will be.
What?
Mom...
Oh, I know.
I wonder if I could change Nelson...
Very sharp!
I know it's a change, but it really highlights your sweet and sensitive side.
Isn't it nice up here? What are you thinking, Nelson?
About anything.
What do you feel? What's inside you right now?
Come on, Nelson! You must think and feel things. I mean, look where we are: a rolling green hillside, the stars coming out like God is lighting a million tiny candles, the moon looking down on us as if to say...
See, you do have a tender side. You just needed someone to bring it out.
Listen, you thugs, stop making fun of him or you'll be sorry!
You'll be so sorry when you realize how you've hurt the feelings of a sweet young man!
He's not like you anymore! He's changed! And he doesn't want to hang around with a buncha crumb-bums!
You got rid of them! And you did it like a gentleman, without any violence.
That's so unfair!
Meet me at the back door!
I think they're giving up.
I thought you weren't there.
You lied to me.
There, you did it again!
No. You don't understand, Nelson. A kiss doesn't mean anything if it's dishonest.
I was foolish to think I'd actually changed you. Maybe I was seeing things in you that weren't really there.
Then why did you want to be with me?
Well, I guess this is it...
Let's just call it "Smell ya later."
Don't worry. Nelson and I don't like each other anymore.
Well, I'm really not thinking about that now.
I suppose it could be almost anybody...
Hmm, pressure dropping, humidity rising over eighty percent, increasing wind...
Here we are, Chapter Two: "So Your Pressure Is Dropping." --
Dad, wake up!
I think a hurricane is coming!
Yes, but the records only go back to 1978, when the Hall of Records was mysteriously blown away!
We better pick up some supplies.
Okay, start with diagonal colors.
Mo-om, let's just grab what we can and get out of here. This storm is making people crazy.
But I'm not fruit! I'm a kid!
You've got to start backwards! / Orange to orange! Ignore the reds! / Alternate corners! /
Dad, no! This may just be the eye of the hurricane.
Wait. Listen, everybody!
The hurricane's over.
Mr. Flanders, with all due respect, Bart didn't do anything.
Not me.
I'm gonna go get some vegetarian chili before they get desperate and add meat.
I saw it, Bart.
What hat?
Out back.
Either that or Batman has really let himself go.
All right! It's time for ABC's TGIF lineup!
Maybe you just dreamed it.
Dad, according to "Junior Skeptic Magazine" the chances are a hundred seventy-five million-to-one of another form of life actually coming in contact with ours.
It's just that the people who claim they've seen aliens are always pathetic low-lifes with boring jobs! Oh, and you, Dad. Heh heh...
Santa's Little Helper, it's your birthday? We've got to get you a present! Yes we do! Yes we do!
I think there must be a more logical explanation. And I think the people of this town aren't gonna be won over by three seconds of videotape.
Wait!
You want an alien? This is your alien!
Mom, this is no time to be conservative. Let's roll the dice here.
Wow, Mom, look at all those customers!
They're good pretzels, Mom. But you've got to think big. Find a major public event and set up shop there.
Oh, Mom, no!
What's going on outside?
Yankees.
Really? Let me see!
Hi, Mr. Smithers!
We'll help you.
Hi, Mom!
Mr. Smithers! Mr. Smithers! I found another hurt shrew! I think this one has a twisted ankle!
Mr. Smithers! Mr. Smithers! That moose is on fire!
What about our dad?!
Mom, Dad and Mr. Burns could be trapped in there!
Look! What's that?!!
I'll see what else is on. Hey, where's the remote?
No.
Uh, mom?
Um, there's a hair in my soup. But I'll just eat around it.
Well, it's blue... six feet long...
Me too.
We'll find a way. Mom has made so many sacrifices for us -- it's time we gave up something for her. I'll stop buying Malibu Stacey clothing.
But he didn't do anything!
We have our own suggestions for the new nanny. Would you like to hear them?
Maestro, if you please.
IF YOU WISH TO BE OUR SITTER / PLEASE BE SWEET AND NEVER BITTER / HELP US WITH MATH AND BOOK REPORTS /
Bart!
IF MAGGIE'S FUSSY, DON'T AVOID HER.
TEACH US SONGS AND MAGIC TRICKS.
THE NANNY WE WANT IS KINDLY AND SAGE.
HURRY NANNY, THINGS ARE
GRIM--
ANY-ONE BUT HIM.
Do we have to?
IT'S THE AMERICAN WAYYY!
You know her?
Oh Shary Bobbins, this is ever so much fun!
But we're not sleepy.
Yes, sing us a song!
More kippers, mum?
We'll miss you, Shary Bobbins.
Been there. Done it.
Shh. TV.
We've crushed her gentle spirit.
Nope.
I'M GETTING USED TO NEVER GETTING NOTICED.
Good-bye Shary Bobbins!
Do you think we'll ever see her again?
Sure, we love it! But how can we watch TV when it's so beautiful out?
Ok. / Guess so. / Sounds good to me./ Let's go.
Wow! / Alright! / Cool!
Why is that mirror sneezing?
Me! / I would! /
Me! / I would! /
Um, excuse me, sir. The thing is, there's not really anything wrong with the Itchy and Scratchy show -- it's as good as ever. But after so many years, the characters just can't have the same impact they once had.
Adding a new character is often a desperate attempt to boost low ratings.
You should try out, Dad. You have a funny voice.
No, it's not your fault, dad. You did fine. It's just that Poochie was a soulless by-product of committee thinking. You can't be cool just by spouting a bunch of worn-out buzzwords.
Yes. Terrible.
I guess...
We should thank our lucky stars they're still putting out a program of this caliber after so many years.
Aw, Mom, are you sure you want to sell a family heirloom to pay the gas bill? I mean, what would your Grandma say?
Wow! An actual robot from the movie "Clank! Clank! You're Dead!"
Ech! Think of how awful it would be for the poor midget inside...
Please don't construe our ownership of this as an endorsement of slavery.
Hi-C! And Fluffernutters!
Mom, John likes "Itchy and Scratchy" as much as we do -- maybe more!
I never realized how many celebrities humiliated themselves right in our own backyard!
But, Dad, it's barbaric! How does killing a deer make you more of a man?
No. They were just going to find a deer and make Bart shoot it.
But if there're no deer out there, then what are they hunting?
Where are the dice?
This is about as tolerant as Dad gets, so you should be flattered.
He thinks you're gay.
And vice versa.
Hey, you said we were going to Dairy Queen.
I know it's hard to accept, Bart, but face it: Sideshow Bob has changed.
Bob's trailer at the construction site?
What were you thinking?
If I didn't know better, I'd swear Bob was building a dam.
Bart, there must be millions of dollars there!
Run!
Then you must have had your eyes closed when you embezzled it.
You cut back on building materials and kept all the money for yourself! That's what happened.
But everyone will know you did this!
It's hopeless. Utterly, utterly hopeless.
No!
Um, do you know what you're doing?
Bob, look!
Bart!
No, Chief, Bob's innocent! It's the truth!
I love everything about the world of babysitting: the responsibility, the obligation, the pressure...
That's a trust, Janey. A sacred trust.
Why hasn't anyone called?
But... but I'm very mature for my age. People often mistake me for nine.
I'll do it! I'll babysit!
But I'm smart and responsible, and my parents will be right next door!
Please, please, please!
Don't worry. A moth is no more harmful than a ladybug.
Oh, they're going to get eaten alive in middle school.
Once there was a robot named Todd...
Yes, he had a brother robot named Rod, who was two space-years older than him.
Okay, Chief. Enjoy Bob Saget!
Now put your left leg into the left side of the pants -- and you're done.
Thanks for the ride!
Thank you, Dr. Hibbert. Your trust means so much to me.
You look so glamorous, Mom! Oh, and you smell like vanilla flowers!
It'll be dark.
Bart, I know you're not wild about having me for a babysitter, but I'm not some ogre. I think you will find me fair and fun.
You should wash up for dinner. To make it fun, you can use the Mr. Bubble -- it'll be like giving your fingers a bubble bath!
Certainly.
Certainly.
Uh, maybe you should eat the ones you have.
Bart, if you don't want to have a babysitter, maybe you should stop being such a baby.
Even babies know how to open and close their mouths. You need a bib.
Oh, look, Bart, now you got Maggie all upset!
Bart, that's coffee ice cream! It has caffeine in it!
Mag-gie, if you come down, I'll give you some more cof-fee.
Lots more coffee. Are you getting ready for bed, Bart?
Come on, Maggie... Good Maggie... The talcum powder's not to play with...
Okay, Bart, now it's really time for you to go to bed!
Why do you have to make this so hard?
Uch! The idea that you would compare yourself to Mahatma Gandhi...
I'll answer it. You go to bed!
What? I didn't order any giant sub!
Excuse me?
Well, there's been a mistake.
I didn't see any U.F.O.!
Well, he's not here! Nobody's here! And none of you should be here! You've all been tricked!
Bart, you are going to be in so much trouble when Mom and Dad get home. Now go to bed!
I thought I told you to go to bed!
I said go to "bed."
B-E-D -- BED!
GO TO YOUR BED!
I'll make you!
Ba-art!
Oh my God!
Bart, are you okay?!
Ew, your arm! It's got extra corners!
We have to get you to the emergency room!
Stop it! Stand still! Maybe I can pop it back in.
Bart! You need first aid! Let me in!
Bart, if you come out, I'll let you eat raw cookie dough. I'll let you... ride the lawn mower through the house. Come on, open the door!
What are you doing now?!
No! As your babysitter, I order you to stop hitting your head on the wall!
Bart? Did you stop because I said to? If so, thank you.
Bart?
911.
Hello, this is Lisa Simpson, and...
Wait! Dr. Hibbert!
Well, I guess I don't have a choice...
Complete confidentiality? Oh. And I'm sure he's as good as Dr. Hibbert. It says so right in his ad.
Hold on, Bart. Everything's going to be just fine. I'm going to get you to a doctor. He will fix you up, and by this time tomorrow we'll all be a happy family. Happy, happy, happy family.
Mag-gie!
Please, Maggie, please go to sleep!
Um, excuse me, Mr. Smithers, Bart may be seriously hurt. Could we possibly go ahead of you?
Hi. How are you?
Okay...
Oh God! Where's Bart?!
Oh, Bart, I'm so sorry. This is all like a bad dream...
Oh, what's happening? Where am I?
Dad, I'm not on drugs. I was just trying--
Hey, Bart. How's your arm?
Eh, well, that's okay. I can always sell seeds. Do you want some seeds?
Hello, world's worst babysitter speaking.
Aren't you afraid I might take drugs and injure your children?
Didn't you hear I almost killed my brother?
That's funny. I don't feel stupid.
No one's pinching his legs.
Mo-om!
Mo-om!! Prohibition may be unpopular, but it's the law and we still have to--
Now you're making your own alcohol? That's even more illegal than what you were doing before!
But 7 goes into 28 4 times.
Bart, how come you're not sick?
I didn't. I just wanted to leave.
I was in the library at the time, but Janey told me that Principal Skinner and Bart's teacher, Mrs.... What's her name?
Yeah, Krabappel. They were naked in the closet together.
No.
Wow, "Trucker's Choice." That is so sweet.
Halogen lamps? Kilim rugs? You can't afford this how can you afford this?
And so handsome! Bart, I just love him!
In a truth-telling contest. Right, Bart?
What've you got for me, boy? Hey, this says we should feed him lots of eggs and olive oil to ensure a glossy coat.
No. They went for a walk with the Flanders. Bart, what's going on? Why are these repo guys taking all your stuff?
A credit card? Oh, I knew you were up to no good.
Hey! Stop! You can take back the bassinet, but the baby is ours!
Where's Santa's Little Helper?
Let's all walk Laddie.
Hey, this park is great! How come we never take Santa's Little Helper here?
Bart, that is a new low.
Well, I won't tell Mom and Dad, but only because I want the dog back. Just try not to freak out the blind man.
Oh, it's for my Junior Achievers Club. We're trying to earn money by recycling.
Mom, Mom, you're mixing polyethylene with polyurethane!
And you have to cut these up first. Otherwise animals get caught in them.
I could still use more paper.
Dad! You're not supposed to have fun recycling. This is serious.
Yes. Um, does your plant have a recycling program?
Hmm. You've never heard of recycling? It means to reuse things to conserve our natural resources.
But nature's not our enemy.
No! I don't agree!
But according to your most recent biography, you only have one hundred million dollars today.
But we didn't do that badly. We collected enough paper to save one whole tree.
I normally don't laugh at other people's misfortunes, but on behalf of the recycling community: HA! It couldn't happen to anyone more deserving.
Dad, if you just drink one more, I'll have a full bag.
There's got to be more trash around here somewhere...
Thanks, Dad!
What do you mean you don't have anything to recycle? You must have some magazines, or newspapers.
My name is Lisa, Mr. Burns. Lisa Simpson.
Ha! I'd never help you. You're the worst man in the world.
No, I'm not!
No.
No.
You again.
Oh... if I did agree to help you, you could only earn money by doing good, socially responsible things. Nothing evil.
Not good money, really. Each can'll get you a nickel.
There's a can.
You have to cut these six-pack holders up. Otherwise fish get trapped in them.
Oh, I'm not doing this for the money. I'm just happy knowing that future generations will enjoy unspoiled median strips and pristine highway embankments.
You guys shouldn't laugh at him. Mr. Burns has changed. He's different now.
Mr. Burns, if you want people to do a good job, you can't bully them. You have to show them they're appreciated.
Wow, even I didn't know he was so committed to recycling! See? I told you Mr. Burns has changed. See?
I'd love to -- Partner!
I'm so proud of you, Mr. Burns! You're getting your fortune back and you're doing it without endangering the planet or cozying up to the Aspen crowd.
What's going on?
Oh, dear God!
I think I'm going to be sick...
Ach! You haven't changed at all! You're still evil! And when you're trying to be good, you're even more evil!
Stop! Don't recycle! It's murder! You're helping Mr. Burns!
No! It's evil! Please stop recycling!
Oh, I can't get the smell of slurry out of my clothes! I was a fool to help that horrible old man!
I don't want to talk to you, Mr. Burns.
Congratulations...
Wow! I've never seen so much money! Oh, but I can't accept that, knowing where it came from. Can I, Mom?
I'm sorry, Dad.
Um, Dad... ten percent of 120 million dollars isn't twelve thousand. It's...
/ Yahoo! / Oh, man, am I glad to get outta there! / etc.
It's the longest possible time before more church.
Me! Me!
I found a Malibu Stacy with no head!
What the heck is that?
It looks Japanese.
What's he saying?
Wow.
Look, we got a package from the Mr. Sparkle Company in Japan!
It's a videotape!
Wait, look.
Hey, it was all a coincidence!
Did you see that?
Ned! Ned! Mr. Flanders!
That came from Baboon County, U.S.A.!
Play dead!
Look, it's Reverend Lovejoy!
Oh, those poor monkeys.
Okay.
Hi.
Can I go downstairs and see what Dad's doing?
Chief Wiggum, I can't wait to hear about all the exciting, sexy adventures you're sure to have against this colorful backdrop!
Oh, Miss Hoover, movies are a nice break, but couldn't we be doing something a little more challenging?
Where's Miss Hoover?
It's not my nature to complain, but so far today we've had three movies, two film strips, and an hour and a half of "magazine time." I just don't feel challenged.
When do you expect the ringing will stop?!
Look at how disciplined they are. They're just like the Terra Cotta Warriors of Xian.
And so am I!
This school has everything I ever wanted.
Yes.
All I want is a chance to prove myself.
Sorry. Sorry. I know we'll be friends. Talk about getting off on the wrong foot... heh heh.
Is there any answer I can give that won't result in more push-ups?
Hey, look, it's the school motto.
Apparently Tim was someone who was with the general moments before he was shot right in the head.
That's how they want you to feel. But if you just hang in there, they'll eventually accept you.
Hey, what about me? I'm a lowly maggot!
I am just calling home, I am not asking to come home.
Oh, Grampa, you're not busy are you?
Uh-huh. So, anything else you want to talk about?
Bart, I got a cassette from Mom and Dad! I thought we could listen to it together.
Lisa. You're talking to Lisa.
Okay. I'm not gonna give up. Solitude never hurt anyone. Emily Dickinson lived alone and she wrote some of the most beautiful poetry the world has ever known! And went crazy as a loon.
Ech, I'm tired of being an issue, Bart. Maybe everyone would be better off if I just quit.
Why'd you say that?
Don't do that. Why should we both be outcasts?
Will you stop looking at your feet?!
This wasn't in the brochure.
Meet me at The Eliminator" after lights out. P.S. The cadets are planning to throw their meatballs at you.
Oh, it's too hard. My hand is slipping.
I can't do this, Bart. I'm not strong enough.
Duh! A challenge I could do.
Bees. Bees.
Yes!
Well, at least they're talking to me...
Oh, if only I were in Springfield, all my friends would be cheering me on. Oh, God, I'm delirious!
Yes! You thought I couldn't but I could I did! and I could do it again let's do it again!
I can't, they're stuck.
A medal? Thank you, Sir!
For satisfactory completion of the second grade.
Yay!
HEY!!
Dad, you got a letter from the City of New York!
"Dear motorist, your vehicle is illegally parked in the borough of Manhattan..."
"...If you do not remedy this malparkage within 72 hours, your car will be thrown into the East River at your expense."
Dad, you can't judge a place you've never been to.
Aw, I'd love to see New York. We could all go with the bus company's special Supersitter Fare!
Dad, our baby pictures were in there!
I just think we should have paid the extra dollar-fifty and gotten a bus with restrooms.
We're here!
Here's a better idea -- you give me your address, and I'll write to you.
Hey, where's Bart?
Actually, I think we're in Chinatown now.
Mom, are those rabbits dead?
Look at all those beautiful shoes! I know they're made from animals, but wow!
Okay, Dad...
Kickin' It! A Musical Journey Through the Betty Ford Center.
Shhh! They're strapping down Liza Minelli.
What a perfect way to end our day in New York.
What a magical city! Can we come back next year, Dad?
Ralph and I could do the report together.
...So in 1966, a brave young man named Seymour Skinner enlisted and shipped out to Vietnam, where he rose to become Platoon Sergeant. Ralph?
Sgt. Skinner was a hero. He risked capture many times behind enemy lines.
And he survived to make it back to Springfield, where he became the fine educator we salute tonight.
I admit Sgt. Skinner seems okay... but Mr. Tamzarian pulled himself up from the streets and earned our respect and admiration.
His name doesn't matter. "A rose by any other name would smell as sweet."
But Dad, I'm supposed to practice an hour a day!
You'll practice me? What does that mean? Is it supposed to be some sort of threat?
Look, Bart. I have to practice my saxophone and you can't stop me.
No!
I said no!
Oh yeah?
Dad, you don't understand. This saxophone is like my oldest friend. I've had it for as long as I can remember.
Nuh-uh.
Look, Mama!
Yeah. Except you were supposed to be telling the story of how I got my saxophone!
Mom, can you tell me the story of how I got my saxophone and not have it turn into a story about Bart!
Mom!
I am three and three eighths!
Two apples!
Wave of da future!
And my gifts are still going to waste.
I'm Lisa!
You have thirteen pickled eggs in this jar! And one cockroach!
That one!
Well, I really liked that story. But it still doesn't fix this.
Well, don't worry about me, Dad. It's not how it looks, it's how it sounds.
"Dear Lisa, May your new saxophone bring you years of D'oh!"
That's not gonna protect us from anything.
I won't.
I know it's good.
I'm happy for you.
All the layers of lead paint in this house made it the perfect bomb shelter.
Yo! / Yayyy! I do! / I do! / Right here! / Yay! / I do! / Let's go!
Wow, look at all these gadgets! If I were a nerd, I'd be in heaven.
Ow! Someone just punched me in the face!
Mom, stop! According to this, it says Bart mixed up his DNA with a fly's. I think that's Bart!
Good one, Dad.
There's one thing I still don't understand. When Bart went through the transporter, what happened to his head?
Bart! Is that you?!
I can't hear you. Wait! Fly into my saxophone!
Oh no! And I let him use my toothbrush! Well, that hideous creep doesn't scare me.
Mom, Dad, help! He's trying to kill me!
You just made a big mistake, Fly Boy.
Hey! It worked!
If they're really witches, why don't they use their powers to escape?
Never mind.
Bart, quit it!
Stop! Doesn't the Bible say "Judge not lest ye be judged"?
Dad, that's our house.
Can we go, Dad? / Please Dad? / Please, please, please? / Can we go, huh, huh please? /
Hey look. It's Pelé!
Somebody's gotta stop them!
Dad! It's three A.M.! Can't you mutter in your room?
All right. Go ahead.
That would have made a lot more sense.
Dad! The 2nd Amendment is just a remnant from Revolutionary days. It has no meaning today.
No...
No, thanks!
Can you help me get my ball down from the roof, Dad?
No offense, Mom, but that was pretty cool.
Can we go swimmin', Mom?
And so is the Bible!
Yes I am! Come on, Spotty!
This bed is making me nauseous. Why won't it stop?!
Yayyy!
Did anyone stop that robber?
Mom, mom. I stepped in a bear trap.
Hey, Tubby. Want another Pop-Tart, Tubby?
What position have you got for me?
That's right. A girl wants to play football. How about that?
You do?
Well... football's not really my thing.
After all, what civilized person would play a game with the skin of an innocent pig?!
I've gotta go.
Dad, that was really mean.
I don't want to make the team.
I got it.
Well, I know you don't want to disappoint Dad, but how do you feel about lying to him?
Mom, please, we're eating!
Aren't there any good bachelors in this town?
Just tell them about yourself.
Ohhhh. / Hiiiii.
Can I ask you about your dot?
What's the deal with that dot?
Fully. We have to go now.
Why is that woman still living here?
Which Bombay to Springfield flight is she on? The 10 o'clock, the 10:15, or the 10:30?
It's the tradition in India.
You did. His name was Stampy. You loved him.
Dad, those peanuts aren't for you, they're for the elephant.
Why would a motorboat have a mast?
Hey, they can't just build a parking lot on Saber Tooth Meadow. That's where they discovered all those fossils!
But they might be paving over rare specimens. Pull over so we can complain, Dad. Come on, who wants to complain with me?
Fine. I'll come back later. Who wants to come back with me? Fine.
My attorney, Lionel Hutz, calls your attention to Municipal Code 147-c: "Protection of antiquities and fossils."
Oh, but what if they missed something? You have to allow an archeological survey!
Mr. Hutz, we won.
Principal Skinner, remember how I didn't sue when I found that scorpion in my applesauce? Well, I'm calling in a favor.
This is so exciting! I can't wait to see what we find!
Okay, everyone! Back to work! You never know when we might uncover a Tyrannosaurus.
Don't give up! I'm sure we'll find something!
C'mon, c'mon! A bottle cap, a shoe, a bar of gold, anything! She suddenly uncovers a white patch.
Everybody! Come quick!
Look, there's more. What the heck is this thing?
Oh, my goodness.
It looks like a human skeleton... but these other bones look almost like wings.
Well, obviously that's impossible--
But it can't be an angel!
Well, maybe it's, uh, uh... a Neanderthal, who got bitten by some angry fish.
It could be anything. It could be a mutant from the nuclear plant.
Hey! / What are you...? / Wait a minute. / Wait! Wait! Wait! / Settle down! / No! No! No! / Excuse me! / No! No!
Ahh, here's Dr. Gould now. What were the results, Professor?
Dad, it's not fair to claim this thing is an angel. There's no proof of that.
What about that sign right there?
Just let me take it to the museum for one day. They can do scientific tests and prove it's not an angel.
Wow... so lifelike.
It's a bone scraping from that skeleton I found.
Quite preposterous. But no one will believe me until I can prove what it really is. Can't you do a DNA test or something?
Oh, thank you so much! Uhm... you know I can't afford to pay you.
Excuse me. I took a piece of the skeleton for scientific analysis. Soon we will have all the facts.
Inconclusive? Then why did you come running up like that?
But--
I am home.
Ugh, those morons make me so angry.
But they are morons. What grown person could believe in angels?
You? But... you're an intelligent person, Mom.
It's not that I don't have a spiritual side. I just find it hard to believe there's a dead angel hanging in our garage.
Don't feel sorry for me, Mom. I feel sorry for you.
Kent.
I just think it's a fantasy. If you believe in angels, then why not unicorns, or sea monsters, or leprechauns?
Look, you can either accept science and face reality, or you can believe in angels and live in a childish dream world.
Ugh, I wish I'd never found those stupid bones! It's time to put an end to this. Bart, I'm borrowing your blue crowbar.
It's gone...
Nothing. Someone must have stolen it.
Hardly. Anyone could have written that.
Will you leave me alone? It's bad enough you're making me go to your stupid "Judgment Day".
Nothing is going to happen, Mom. I hate to disappoint you, but the world is not coming to an end.
Well, there you go. I hope you all learned a val--
Wait a second! You planted a phony skeleton for me to find! This was all a big hoax.
You exploited people's deepest beliefs just to hawk your cheesy wares?! Well, we are outraged! Aren't we?!
I don't understand, Professor. Why didn't your tests show the skeleton was a fake?
Well, it was just so loud and... Heh, heh, heh... Thanks for sqeezing back.
Don't worry, Mom. We'll help you study.
Oh, don't listen to my husband. He's just an idiot. Now, I'm a veterinarian and I need to keep lots of sick animals in my house. Is that permitted?
When I had to learn about the Magna Carta, I made up a song. "In 1215 at Runnymede!/ Doo dah, doo dah/ The nobles and the King agreed!/ Oh, d-doo dah day..."
"On the closing day!/ The escrow agents pay!/ Taxes, liens, and interest, too, thanks to Fannie Mae!"
Yay!/ Way to go!
Ah! Dad! Doesn't this car have seat belts?
That's not true. You're thinking of airbags.
Wow! / Your own billboard! / Check it out!
Ah, so you don't have that killer instinct. Big deal.
Um-hmmm.
Well, I'm proud of you, Mom. You refused to compromise your integrity.
This year's tree is just perfect. That old aluminum one was so fake.
Bart, did you hear that?
Mom! Make him stop!
You didn't invent that, Bart. The Indians used to drink water to wake up early for their attacks.
Dad...
Bart, what were you doing outside?
Hey, why don't we walk over to Grampa's and cheer up the old folks? That'll make us feel better.
Nothing could be as fun as that looks.
Sorry, Daddy.
Bart, this is Patches, and what was your name?
Here comes Santa Claus / Here comes Santa Claus / Right down Santa Claus Lane... Vixen and Blitzen all the reindeer pulling at the reins... / Oh what fun it is to ride in a one horse open sleigh...
Turn into the skid!
Bail out!
No burglar? / What? / what's he mean?
Why you little...
And after we spent all the townspeople's money.
I think they're running out of tomatoes.
Um, Miss Hoover! Miss Hoover!
But we don't have $15,000.
Run, Mom!
I guess we better get used to being pariahs.
What?
But we would have had each other anyway.
Hey!
Did you get "Emma?" Did you get "Emma?" Did ya? Did ya? Did ya? Huh?
He's dreamy.
You like musicals, don't you Dad?
THAT WAS PRETTY BAD, BART / BUT IT COULD'VE BEEN WORSE / YOU COULD HAVE BEEN CARRYING A SEQUINED PURSE!
OOOOOO.
MANY PEOPLE IN THIS TOWN / SING LIKE WE DO / THERE'S MISTER BURNS, THERE'S KRUSTY, AND EVEN APU.
BECAUSE HE WAS SINGING, WE OVERHEARD HIS PLAN / AND COULD SAVE THOSE DOGS FROM THAT MEAN OLD MAN.
WE CAN'T EVEN GET ANY LOCAL LAWS PASSED / WITHOUT EVERYONE SINGING LIKE A BIG BROADWAY CAST.
THERE IS SOMETHING WORSE...
You turn it on. I turned it on yesterday.
Sure we do. Ding ding ding ding ding.
Ding ding ding ding ding...
That's a good suggestion, Mom.
No! Then who'd chop off my hands?
Bring it in here.
Hard work made us quit.
Okay. We get our room and board free anyway.
The Carnival!
Oh boy! / All right, free money! / Wow!
I want some Fried Sugar!
This isn't very scary.
That was just confusing.
We just saw the most amazing camel!
Why did you shudder just now, Mom?
Ewww!
I was wrong about the Cooders, Dad. They're the nicest of all the transients you've ever brought home.
And how. / Heck yeah. / Yes they are. / You betcha.
They're squatting in our house?
Bart, you're brushing your teeth with my twig.
Ugh! One of them's playing my saxophone!
Oh, no! The spit valve! Release the spit valve!
Well... if we did set fire to the house...
Oh, I can't watch.
No we don't, Mother!
Watch yourself, Dad. You're the highly suggestible type.
Dad, do you think you might have been brainwashed?
Dad and all these other people are obviously the products of mental conditioning.
We toil in the fields and he rides around in a Rolls Royce?
He's wrong! You're wrong! The whole damn system is wrong!
Grades?
We love the Leader!
Yaaay! Here comes the Leader!
Oh yeah! / Absolutely! / At least twice as much!
The hell with him! / What Leader? / He can take a flying leap as far as I'm concerned! / Lea-who?
Hoverbikes!!
Yayyy!
But we heard them hovering!
It's wonderful to think for ourselves again.
We are watching Fox.
Yeah, Mom, c'mon. You let us stay up to watch Troy McClure in such other bible epics as "David vs. Super Goliath" and "Suddenly, Last Supper."
Aw, those poor badgers are soaked.
Point of order. If we want to learn anything, we must respect...
Hey, Martin seconded the motion. It's entirely his fault.
What about the rest of us?
All we found were these oozing berries. And they look pretty poisonous.
Knock it off. We gotta find a way to light a fire.
She's really hungry.
Wait a minute... We had a cooler full of snacks on the bus.
We may have to live on this food for a long time, so no more till tomorrow.
No one, but if we're gonna survive, we need rules and order. Let's not forget what we learned in the U.N. Club.
Not now, Martin.
Who wants rations?
Wait! We're not savages! We live in a society of law. Milhouse has the right to a fair trial!
Your honor, the defense calls its first and only witness: Milhouse Van Houten.
Milhouse, did you steal the food?
Could anyone else have taken it?
Milhouse! I am defending you!
The defense has just one more question.
Did any one of you actually see Milhouse eat the food?
I rest my case.
Object-Objection! He's not asking any questions!
The law has spoken.
Stop! Leave Milhouse alone! Help me out here, Bart.
RUN-A-WAY!
Aw, crud. / Aw, come on, man.
Look! We can hide in that cave!
We should be safe in here.
Oh, figs.
Stop! You are in violation of the Model U.N. Charter!
Uh, that's right. The U.N. doesn't look too kindly on...
Hey... If a boar can survive here, there must be a source of food.
Look, he's licking the slime off that rock! That's what he's been eating -- slime! And there's enough slime for all of us! We're saved!
Ah, shut up. Savages.
Oh rats! Talk about bad luck! I forgot to wear socks today. Guess I can't try those on.
Ewww!
Mom, these are at least two sizes too big.
No, Dad, it's to fight soil erosion.
Dad, the zebra didn't do it. It's just a word at the end of the dictionary.
It's just a joke.
He said there's no shame in their forbidden love.
"Take me here, under the disco ball."
One's residential, the other is business.
Me too...
I love you, Mom!
Ow! Bart, that has nuts in it!
Actually, we can't take a bath anyway. The water heater is broken.
You look a little nervous, Dad.
Dad, we're the visitors.
I bought my lunch at the gas station.
It's the kind John Glenn eats when he's not in space.
Professor Provolone's Picto-Puzzle.
I'll get it in a second. Don't worry.
Hey, some of us are still trying to solve it!
Maybe I can't concentrate because of all your cooties.
Okay, let's see, it's not Egyptian. It's not Prince's names.
I don't need a hint, Ralph!
For your information, none of your business!
If you're suggesting I stayed up all night trying to solve that childish puzzle, you're right.
Ugh! Now I can't remember my combination!
The project! I forgot all about it!
I'm finished. I've just got to...oh... there!
It's a pig!
And a spring for his curly tail! Huh-huh. Oink, oink, oink...Huh-huh!
Me, too.
Darn it!!
Mom, I think something's wrong with me. I can't do anything right lately.
It can't just be a bad day. I feel like I'm getting dumber by the minute.
What are you talkin' about?
Wow, Dad was a good speller?
Grampa!
This is just two years ago!
This is crazy! Just because you and Dad and Bart went downhill doesn't mean it's gonna happen to me... does it?
Dear Log: Can it be true? Do all Simpsons go through a process of dumbening?
Wait, that's not how you spell "dumbening." Wait, "dumbening" isn't even a word!
Oh... I've got to find out more...
Time is running out.
No.
That didn't answer anything. I need more information.
Isn't there any way I can change my DNA, like sitting on the microwave?
Dear Log: My worst fears have been confirmed. I've hit my mental and creative peak at the tender age of eight. What will my life be like after I descend into mediocrity?
Well, Ralph seems happy enough... Maybe I should just give up now and settle into a mindless, happy stupor...
Yeah... Huh, huh, huh, maybe people got hurt!
All right! Sounds good!
If she started dinner three minutes earlier, we wouldn't be in this mess!
But those candy bars are all squished and melted.
Quit it... quit it... quit... You kids knock it off! Mama's watchin' her stories!
Hey, angel pie. Can you drive me down the libarry? I wanna rent us up some movies.
Wesley, get Mama's pryin' bar.
Easy does it now... easy... little more... yea... right... that's the spot... ooah!
No!!
I don't want to turn out that way!
Like you!!
Dear Log: It won't be long now before my mind melts into a soft Simpsony sludge. Soon, the arts and literature I love will be replaced by talk radio and vulgar mud flaps. It's time to give my brain its last meal.
Oh, Kenny, look at the interplay of light and shadow. It's so luminous and vibrant.
You have to listen to the notes she's not playing!
Great set!
Ah, they just came for the buffalo wings. But you really got through to me.
Yeah, while you still can... Thanks!
Uh, I am! I'm strongly opposed to... Proposition, uh, 3-0-5...
Uhh, you bet I am!
Hello. My name is Lisa Simpson.
I'm supposed to talk to you about Proposition 305...
...but I have something more important to say. For reasons beyond my control, I will soon become vapid, sluggish, and slow-witted. So before that happens, I want to share some things with you that have really meant a lot to me...
And please don't deprive yourself of wonderful books like "To Kill A Mockingbird", "Harriet The Spy", and "Yertle the Turtle", possibly the best book ever written on the subject of turtle-stacking...
Beauty is all around us, and not just in pageants and parlors. You can find it in the swirl of galaxies or the swirl in the center of a sunflower...
So, please, I beg you, don't take your brain for granted. It's the best friend you'll ever have...
Why bother?
I'm adopted?
Doctor?
That means you went to college, right?
So all the Simpson women turn out okay?
So I'm not doomed!
Oh Dad, I've never been happier to be your daughter.
Dearest Log: I am me again! And I feel like there's nothing I can't do...except this stupid brain teas...
I got it! Woo hoo! I mean... splendid.
What a whimsical building! Who says science can't be fun?
Wowww!
I wanna read the giant book!
Let's just pray this hits the prison.
Ralph? But the rocket was my idea.
But surely, I deserve some credit for...
Ralph! Ralph! Ralph! Ralph!
Are you thinking of joining the Naval Reserve?
Eh, sort of.
Good luck, Dad. Although I am morally opposed to the military-industrial complex of which you are now a part.
An earring? How rebellious in a conformist sort of way.
Can I?
Be careful, Dad.
I told him that photo would come back to haunt him.
I think you're a hero, Dad.
Dad!
That was last year's taxes! You have to pay again this year!
The government has no right to use you this way.
No, it makes you look like a tool of government oppression.
Who needs college, Mom. We're trillionaires! Let's buy dune buggies.
Oh, my gosh! Today's top story: "Little Girl on Cloud Nine as Dream Comes True."
I know. I already jumped to that conclusion.
Me?
...And I'll be able to tackle all the hard-hitting children's news the grown-up controlled media won't touch. Plus I get to be on TV!
Well, we used to date. Plus, he threatened me.
Back off, Bart. This may be the only chance I get as a second grader to produce my own TV show, and I'm not gonna let you screw it up.
Mo-om...
Come on, quit foolin' around, you guys.
Bart, get out of my anchor chair.
Come on, this isn't a joke. All over town, kids are just waking up from their naps, cranky and hungry for the news.
Thank you. Our top story today: in a move that could affect children townwide, the library book-purchase committee slashed its budget by three percent. First on the chopping block, periodicals.
And now, sports.
Sorry, Bart, but you've got to take some things seriously.
What?!
I don't need a co-anchor. I'm a straight "A" student.
What is "zazz"?
Zork? What is "zork"?
But that trivializes the whole idea of kids news. I mean, let's be honest. Bart's not exactly the brightest penny in the fountain.
Look, I love Bart... But he's never even read a newspaper.
Between you and me, he's well... kinda dumb.
We'll bring you more on this chalk shortage as it continues. And now, Bart's been looking into that alleged ham salad from yesterday's school lunch.
Bart, I really think we should stick--
That's Kids News. Good night.
That wasn't news. That was sappy manipulative drivel.
You didn't feel for him either, you big fat phony.
It's Lisa.
They want cheap sentiment? I'll pump 'em so full of sap they'll be blowing their nose with a pancake.
They call her the Cat Lady. People say she's crazy, just because she has a few dozen cats. But can anyone who loves animals that much really be crazy?
The old Union Pacific doesn't come by here much anymore...
Hmm, thank you, Bart, for yet another touching "Bart's People." Now, turning to--
That's what Veterans Day is for, Bart.
They also have Memorial Day.
They have two.
What does that even mean? Mom might not see through you, but I do. You don't care about any of these people.
Stop talking like that! Stop it!
"Bart's show." If everybody knew what a phony Bart was, he'd be off that show so fast... I've got it!
Hey, here's another letter for Bart's People.
Oh-how-terrible-read-on.
It is, isn't it?
Oh, Bart, you'll have to ride your bike pretty fast to get out there in time...
They gave you a chopper?!
Eww. Thank you, Milhouse. Now it's time for today's special live edition of Bart's People.
Oh, no! What have I done?!
Nelson, cover for me.
Willie, stop!
No, you can't hurt Bart. He's... Well, he's... your son!
Well, not literally. But in a way, isn't he everyone's son? For you see, that little "hell-raiser" is the spawn of every shrieking commercial, every brain-rotting soda pop, every teacher who cares less about young minds than about cashing their big, fat paychecks. No, Bart's not to blame. You can't create a monster and then whine when he stomps on a few buildings. I'm Lisa Simpson.
Boy, that phony schmaltz of yours sure is powerful stuff.
You know, Bart, if we combined your showmanship with my integrity, we could make kids really care about the news.
I can't believe they cancelled us for this stupid...
Come on, Mom, the stores just invented this holiday to make money.
Uh, what a terrible waste!
It's full, Dad. That means you have to take out the trash.
Dad, is this another one of those situations that could be solved by a simple apology?
Yeah Dad, you're always telling me and Bart to apologize.
Yes.
Aren't you gonna buy it, Dad?
Wow, Dad, you're really working hard.
'CAUSE HE'S HOMER SIMPSON, MAN
You know Dad, there's a lesson in all this. Many cities have problems with garbage disposal, and it's time we realized you can't just...
Drugs.
That's awful! I almost wish it were drugs.
But Dad, you can't cram garbage under Springfield forever.
So we transplant the town. We're just gonna trash the new Springfield, too.
Dad, what have you done to your stomach?
I've got some!
Uh... Mom?
Family to Dad. Family to Dad. Come in, Dad!
Where in the world did you find a sled on top of the--
This exhibit is a once-in-a-lifetime event. It's the first time these Egyptian artifacts have been allowed out of England.
Oh, I can't wait! In just twenty minutes, we'll be in a three hour line to see the Orb of Isis.
Bart, did you glue those on?
Wait! You promised to take me to the museum!
What if I took a bus?
But it's the last day of the Isis exhibit!
Dad?
It's Lisa. I just called to tell you how much I love you and can I take the bus to the museum?
Ahm... I wasn't a hundred per cent clear on that. She said something, but she was kind of in a rush to get Bart to the emergency room.
Well... if it would put your mind at ease, I could take a limousine. Although that would cost two hundred dollars...
Hmm. I guess I could take the bus, if you think that's a better idea.
Oh, all right.
Yes!
Ah, the old Number 22. Clean, reliable public transportation. The chariot of the people. The ride of choice for the poor and very poor alike. Sure, some folks prefer--
Yes.
Look! It's the bus! The bus! Come on, you're gonna miss the bus!
That's one small step f-- Whoa!
Hi, Larry.
I'm sorry, it's just that on the school bus--
May I sit there?
May I have that seat?
Never mind.
Crackton? That doesn't sound right.
Um... excuse me, sir. When does this bus get to the museum?
Oh! But isn't this the 22?
22A?! Then where the heck am I?
But I'm lost and I need to know where --
I should've got off in Crackton.
Okay, the museum's got to be north of here. Now which way is north...?
Aha! It's springtime, so the geese must be flying back north.
Hey!
How could I confuse bus 22 with bus 22A?
Area 51? I found Area 51!
Well, um, I'm kind of lost. Can you tell me where I am?
Stupid bus that can't even go to the stupid place it's supposed to stupid go.
Yahhh!
Uh-huh. Um, listen, I'm kind of lost. Do you think you could give me a lift downtown?
I didn't know Springfield had a Russian district.
Excuse me. Can you tell me how to get to the museum?
No, thanks!
Oh, that's it. I give up.
Excuse me, ma'am? Uh, hello? Somebody? Anybody?
Dad!
Hang on, Dad!
Look out!
Hurry! Hurry! Lower the bridge!
Dad, grab onto it!
No!
Are you sure you don't want to go to a doctor? I mean, a drawbridge did close on your head.
I should have known I wasn't old enough to take the bus alone, but I really wanted to see that exhibit. I'll never take another stupid risk like that again!
What?
I guess...
Dad! You're headed for the river again!
Dad, are you all right?
See the Isis exhibit. But the museum's closed.
Dad, I'm kind of scared.
Okay... Here goes.
Wowww. It's magnificent.
Now I know how Sir Dudley Winthrop felt when he first fell through the ceiling and discovered the Temple of Isis.
Have you ever seen such exquisite Ushabtis?
Ohmigosh! It's the mysterious Orb of Isis.
Archaeologists have been studying it for decades, and still have no clue what it means.
Oh! We can't touch it, Dad. It's behind a velvet rope! A velvet rope.
Dad!
You broke it!
It's a music box! Dad, we uncovered the secret!
It's so beautiful. And just think, we're the first people to hear its song in more than four thousand years.
Thanks for making me take such a stupid risk, Dad.
It's kind of humbling, isn't it? The music we just heard might never be heard again.
Dad, that's the Old Spice song.
Do do do do-do / Do do do do-do / Do do do do do do do do.
Playin' Hot Wheels.
Yayyy!
Happy Anniversary, Mom and Dad!
Wow! This is the best anniversary ever.
Someone left the freezer door open and the motor burned out. We can get a new one.
What a weird looking vacuum cleaner.
Hey, public display.
What are we looking for, anyway?
It's a bottle cap.
But it's all trash.
Do you know you have your hands in each other's pockets?
Wow! An alternate ending to "Casablanca!" Bart, this could be priceless!
Unbelievable.
I'm just a little girl.
This should be in a museum.
Hey!
Uh, I was just trying to find Dave Barry's column.
Look, Dad, they've got every kind of paper! Looseleaf, graph, unlined, college-ruled!
Krusty's Speak and Say?
I like school.
You have a pen glued to your cowlick.
No!
Come on, Bart. The bus is here.
Don't worry, I'll help her out. I remember how hard it was to be an outsider. Always trying to fit in... never quite feeling like...
Did she just tell me to shut up?
You'll want a locker in this hallway -- it's library-adjacent.
Is that perfume?
Well, you'll definitely want to get yourself a good doll. The new Malibu Stacy has an achievable chest.
Oh, jacks. Jacks are big. They went out for a while, but then they came roaring back.
Oh, don't worry, you'll pick it up fast. Once you get to foursies, you're in the zone.
Uh, they were... all wiped out in the big trophy fire.
Alex! Over here! Okay if the new girl sits with us?
She's a little weird, but let's give her a chance.
Guys, this is Alex.
Okay, I'll go get our lunches.
That's it, don't be shy...
Now maybe a little joke, to break the ice.
Or a big joke.
Careful, now. Nobody likes a showoff.
Where are they going?
Hey, wait up!
They left without me.
So, there I am being nice to Alex, and she takes all of my friends and ditches me.
They only like her 'cause she acts so grown up, with her perfume and her cell phone and... Oh, and get this, Mom, she drinks iced tea.
But, Dad...
Hm, don't give it a second thought. I didn't.
Oh, earrings! Wow, thank you so much, Alex. But these are for pierced ears.
But I don't think I'm ready for pierced ears.
Absolutely.
Yeah, it's great. We have pony rides, sing-alongs, apple-bobbing, apple-picking, apple everything.
No, I didn't.
Um, I don't know. The ponies might be startled by the loud music.
Oh, then, at the risk of being unpopular, I think I'm gonna have to say...
Yes, you did! Yesterday. Right by my locker.
Okay, girls, we're gonna need balloons, crepe paper, party hats...
I am not wearing this.
Aren't we a little young for makeup and... What do you mean, five pounds?
Date?
You guys have dates?
Stop saying hello!
What's "D.M.Y."?
Eww!
I don't want a date! And I don't want to wear perfume and cocktail dresses! Am I the only one who just wants to play hopscotch, and bake cookies, and watch "The McLaughlin Group?"
Hel-lo?
Hello?
You're taking me! You got that?! And it's gonna be a magical evening!
Hey, guys.
No doubt! Can't a girl fabulize herself before the big dance?
Oh. So, I guess major muffins like yourselves all have dates, huh?
Really? All of you?
Unbelievable!
Ahhhh!
Milhouse! I've been lookin' all over for you! Listen, you've always had a crush on me, right? Well, this is your lucky day, 'cause you're gonna take me to the dance. Pretty great, huh? See ya.
So un-ask her.
Ah. What am I doing? This isn't me. I'm sorry, Milhouse.
Lucky parameciums.
You don't have to worry about finding dates or dancing.
Thanks, Mom. But I told you, I'm not going.
You don't understand. I don't belong there. The other girls are already into fashion and make-up and dating. They make me feel like a little baby.
Forget it, Mom. I'm not going.
Mom, you can't possibly believe that.
I'll go.
Enjoy the dance.
It slipped.
Ah, it's gonna be a long night.
Oh, I don't want to go in there with all the happy dancing couples.
All right, all right. D.M.Y.
Huh?
What happened?
Kids?
It's because they are kids. And so are we. C'mon, Alex, we've only got nine, maybe ten years tops where we can giggle in church, and chew with our mouths open, and go days without bathing. We'll never have that freedom again.
Oh, act your age.
Hi, Dad. How was work?
Come on, let's get you into your favorite shirt.
Surprise!
Homer Simpson, welcome to your life!
There you are in outer space. That's pretty impressive.
It was Thomas Edison, Dad.
That, too. He also invented the phonograph, the microphone, and the electric car.
It's true. I read it on a place mat at a restaurant.
You've started smoking, Dad?
Okay. Umm... automatic...
Fluorescent...
Lazy father...
Dad, women won't like being shot in the face.
You expect people to go to the bathroom in their living rooms?
Somebody had to tell him, Mom. In the long run, it's much kinder to--
Homer! / Dad! / Look out!
They're on hinges. That's really ingenious, Dad.
Me, too!
Dad, those should be your millions.
Mom, they put every kid in America in that book, just so gullible parents will buy it. It's all a big scam.
Move it, poky.
Uh, shouldn't you put on a batting helmet?
Hang in there, Dad! Just half a basket left!
Yes! A Maggie-oop!
So what prize did you end up getting?
Fake mustache.
Wanna comb it?
But Mom said not to!
What the heck's going on?
Bart? Uhh, he went to play with a friend.
No, no. I'm pretty sure he's with Milhouse.
That never happened, Dad.
I see an eye!
A horn?
Dad, they aren't birds.
One, they don't have beaks, two, they don't have feathers, and three, they're lizards.
Bolivian Tree Lizard?
Wow. Did you know they had those web flaps for gliding?
But isn't that a bit short-sighted? What happens when we're overrun by lizards?
But aren't the snakes even worse?
But then we're stuck with gorillas!
I don't get it, Bart. You got all upset when you killed one bird, but now you've killed tens of thousands and it doesn't bother you at all.
You had it on the way over!
Whoaaa, Daaad!
Uh, Bart?
Gee!
Who'd do such a thing?
I told you capital punishment isn't a deterrent.
Whoaaa!
Of course... the transplant! Somehow Snake's hair must be controlling--
Hey!
Ohh, Bart, that's plutonium. It's highly unstable.
What's wrong with the TV?
Bart, quit it!
Hey... gim... ah... ah!
How humiliating.
To protect and sever?
We're done for, Bart!
Look!
Dad, you gotta get us out of here! Use the remote!
Dad! Push exit!
Oh, geez!
Me too.
Poor Maggie. If only you could tell us what's happening to you.
And now he's dead.
Dad! Wake up! Wake up! Wake up!
Yeah, yeah. Anyway, you promised to take us to the lake.
Actually, keeping promises would make you a good father.
Dad, you really should be watching the road.
Ready.
Step on it, Mom. Dad's signaling that he wants to go higher.
Where'd you get that muffin?
I washed the dog today.
Of course not.
Don't blame us, Dad. The celebrities are the ones who canned you.
I didn't quite get the point of it, Dad. Why would Lenny want someone to saw his legs off?
Hey, Dad, it says they need your full name. You only put down your middle initial.
You might as well. You already made up a phony film credit.
Dad, do you mind? Your feet are really close to my potato.
Uh-oh. I don't like the sound of that.
And the soles of your feet are jet black.
Ah, this is my kind of aisle -- soy substitute... whizless cheese... oven-roasted cud!
Candy Warhol? Xavier Nougat?
Lobsters need salt water.
Much better.
I'm afraid I can't allow that.
Mom, no, wait! We can make a deal!
No, but I enjoy the smell.
But I'm hardly learning at all.
I am so scared.
All right, I guess you're supposed to go through this stupid door...
Hmm... I wonder what's in this glowing barrel.
What? Nunchuks? Those aren't even Australian.
Oh, great. So I'm dead now? Fine, I'm sick of this stupid game anyway.
Yes!
I am just four power wands away from an anti-gravity lozenge. Hope I don't run into that weird little troll!
No, pause, pause!
The Wind in the Willows.
No, you live in a different house.
We'll see about that, mate.
No, no! Yes! That's it! Bite, bite, bite!
Ah, I don't know. I mean, I could risk it, but...
Oh, I really need one more day, Mom. I think the germs are regrouping. Now for breakfast I'll have hash browns, coffee and a short stack. And would it kill you to heat up the syrup?
But I-I might infect the other kids!
"The Wind in the Willows?" Oh yeah, Ralph brought it over.
Okay. All right. You can bluff your way through one test.
"Mr. Toad has a red blank." Okay, skip that one. "Mr. blank needs a blank in order to blank his blank." I am in deep blank.
No, not Brown!
Brown, Brown, Brown...
Well, actually, I do feel a little feverish.
I need a miracle. Come on, you owe me.
Bart?! Shouldn't you be in class?
We've got a test, and I didn't read the book. I'll get a zero for sure, Bart! What do I do?
Hey, I can't go in there!
Oh my God! These are the answers to the test! I don't wanna cheat!
Forget it. I'd rather get a zero.
Keep the change.
Well, I guess I was just on a roll.
Actually, there are four plusses.
Daddd...
Mom, where did you get that?
Uh, I am sick of everyone being so proud of me!
Can't you see the difference between earning something honestly and getting it by fraud?
I don't want your dirty denominators.
No! I never cheated before, and I never will again! Oh, I almost wish I hadn't gotten away with it.
What?
Stop it! I cheated! Cheated, cheated, cheated, cheated, cheated!
I cheated!
She doesn't know. You're the only one I've told.
But what I did was wrong.
But we can't accept that money. It's tainted.
Well, if you're gonna cover this up, I'll just have to go over your head to Super--
Intendent--
Chalmers.
You can't keep this scoreboard -- because there's not gonna be any grant money! Because I cheated!
Aww. Way to go, Ralph.
I guess I don't have much choice.
Thank you. I know this giant check is very important to everyone here. But, what's even more important is the truth.
Because after all, education is the search for truth...
... And the truth is, we don't deserve this grant, and I don't deserve your applause. I cheated on that test.
But, Mom--
That's one grade I truly earned.
And the tumbleweeds tumble at 2, 4 and 6! Plus a midnight tumbling on weekends.
Mom, don't.
Hey, Dad, that light says, "Check Engine."
Oh, come on.
Because they discovered gold right over there--
Uh, should we help him?
Besides, nothing's too good for a wonderful, generous man like you.
Can I fluff your pillow?
I can't imagine Dad running away like this. Leaving his father to die.
Doctor Hibbert, I thought you'd located another kidney for Grampa.
Dad!
He's waking up!
I know you're a little peeved at Grampa, Dad, but you've done a wonderful thing.
Hi.
Oh, poor Mark Hamill.
Oh, my God. Someone has to go back in for Maggie!
That "change" was a bribe.
No he doesn't. Trains are regulated by the Federal Department of Transportation. And recent studies have shown that...
Dad! What a nice surprise.
I'm surprised they bothered to move it when they moved the town.
Dad, we hit Don Rickles!
I've never heard of these bands, Mom. What kind of music do they play?
Heh, you're not really giving my father power of attorney, are you?
Why do you hate the Isotopes so much, Dad?
Even you?
Is he, Mom? You can tell me.
With a little middle relief, they might even make the playoffs.
Wow, you look really hungover, Dad. What did you do last night?
Kids?
Whoa / Curfew?
But it's not fair. Adults always blame kids for everything!
What a beautiful night... fireflies, full moon...
Hippo in the House.
Ooh, "The Game of Lent."
Fine. We'll play "Hippo in the House."
Drinking their coffee...
Meh.
Hey, there is one thing we could do.
Wait, there's a commercial!
/ Ohh, yeahhhh.
Nelson.
Wait! We don't need supernatural powers! We already know their secrets.
Great. This is all gold.
Hey, look what I found. Grampa's old radio. Oh, wouldn't it be grand to gather 'round and have a listen?
Our top secret tonight: Gay divorcée Luann Van Houten has been cheating on her boyfriend Pyro -- with his best friend, Gyro.
And guess who's been practicing medicine without a license...
... that's right, Homer Simpson.
ADULTS! / YOU'RE SUCH A DROOLING SNORING, BOOZING BORING BUNCH / SURLY, MEANIE, THREE-MARTINI LUNCH-ERS.
I warned you guys that seniors always vote in record numbers.
I did, until we came here last year.
But it's nine digits now. What's the point of these other four numbers?
Doughy's has terrible pizza.
Um, Dad...
It is to me.
Wow, you've signed up quite a few people, Dad: Sea Captain, Bumblebee Man, Comic Book Guy, the Squeaky Voiced Teen...
Yeah, I'm bored too.
It's so rigid and uncreative.
Oh, those poor, helpless cows.
Hey, what's this?
Vincent Price's Egg Magic!
Okay, now we just have to stick the feet on.
But it clearly says "Feet Included." They have to be here.
Now what do we do?
Mom, this was made in 1967. They're probably out of business.
So, is he alive or not?
These Super Bowl commercials are weird.
Unplugged.
Isn't mid-season just a dumping ground for second-rate shows that weren't good enough for the fall schedule?
The Renaissance.
That's not really you, Dad. He's just a fictional character who happens to have the same name.
The first episode was just a pilot, Dad. Producers fiddle with shows all the time. They change characters, drop others, and push some into the background.
Max Power??
We should really put that in the corner.
What's this wrapped in a banana leaf? Mmm, smells like mint.
Eww.
That's not a fairy tale. It's just something that happened to you at Moe's.
Ohhh, it sounds so real!
Dad, the vet says we shouldn't make him fetch the Sunday paper.
Oh, how romantic!
Dad, you were supposed to pay for those snacks.
There's an opening, Mom!
But Mom, I read that sport utility vehicles are more likely to be involved in fatal accidents.
Eww, why is Courtney Love on the Wheaties box?
Hey, give me some of that.
Mom, Bart sprayed whipped cream in my eye!
Hey!
Bart! That's tomorrow night's dinner.
Mom! Bart took what I said and turned it into an insult!
Hey, why don't you come to the Wild Animal Park with us?
Bart, they're not here to entertain us.
But Dad, lemurs are nocturnal.
No!
Throw your peanuts!
How'd you know your plan would work, Mom?
Well, this could be quite enlighten--
NBC has lots of great shows, and their news and sports coverage can't be beat!
Fine. How about--
Okay, Dad, we're ready.
Dad! Don't you remember? It's our special Saturday.
Why do you assume that I won't pick something fun? Let's see... Oh, this looks very educatio--
The book fair?
Oh, this is perfect!
No! The Smithsonian Traveling Exhibit.
It encapsulates America and makes history come alive!
Sorry, Dad. My mind is made up.
Deal.
Hey, how come the Smithsonian needs to be sponsored by a cel phone company?
Yeah, but corporate sponsorship cheapens our nation's treasures.
Look, they have Lincoln's hat!
America's greatest citizen summed up in one piece of clothing.
How can they put a prop from a TV show next to the Bill of Rights?
It guarantees all of the basic freedoms -- speech, religion, the right to a speedy trial...
Dad, don't do that!
Ugh, that antenna is an eyesore.
Yeah, well, I hope it doesn't hum too loud, 'cause I have a ton of homework to do, and if I don't finish it by...
My room!
What happened to my room?!
You gave away my room!
I can't believe you did this, Dad. Why didn't you put that thing in your room?
But where am I supposed to live?!
Until you taped over it, "The Little Mermaid."
Dad!
Shut up.
Ugh, this is not gonna work.
Bart, stop it.
Squeaking that chair!
Ohhh! Quit it! Quit it! Quit it! Quit it!
Dad, will you please tell Bart to stop squeaking his chair. I'm trying to do my homework.
No-ho-ho...
I am trying to do my homework.
Dad, why did you have to take away my room?
I just want to study.
Da-ad!
That's awful!
Ooh, my stomach hurts.
Mom, I don't feel so good.
My tummy really hurts.
Sounds great.
I'm really not the chuckling type.
Yeah, ya know some of that all-natural stuff is really very well --
They're not all crazy, Dad.
You know, just because you say something is crazy, doesn't make it so. And just because you think museums are boring and demolition derbies are fun, doesn't make that true either!
Dad, you don't have to go to a New Age store just for me. I know you think this stuff is stupid.
I just wish you could keep an open mind about other cultures.
Da-ad.
Bleagghhh!
I'll take two hours.
How am I supposed to hallucinate with all these swirling colors distracting me?
Wow, my mind just created that out of nothing. This tank is releasing the full potential of my brain.
Wow, I've been a cat, a tree, and Cokie Roberts! It's happening again! I wonder where I'm going this time.
Dad, wake up!
Your snoring is disturbing the dancers.
How can you embarrass me like this? You won't sit through anything that doesn't have car crashes!
Boy, I can really be a pain in the butt.
Gee, I should cut Dad some slack. After all, he did take me to the ballet, and the Smithsonian exhibit... In fact, he takes me lots of places he hates.
Hi, Dad. How was it?
Pretty cool. But now, whaddaya say we go do something we'll both enjoy?
Not to me, Dad.
Lousy meat-eating scum.
Not you.
I'm going over to protest this disgusting new restaurant called "The Slaughterhouse." It's decorated with hanging steer carcasses and a fountain of blood.
The worst part is, you pick out your own cow and they kill it right in front of you!
Wow, Dad and Bart have been everywhere! They've eaten submarine sandwiches, grinders, and hoagies.
We're buying a new doorbell?
Mom, is this the one you want?
Come on, Mom, let's take it for a test drive.
Oh, Milhouse is selling seeds! And he's coming this wa... Oh, the birds got him.
Wait, people are coming. I think they're Jehovah's Witnesses.
Dad's got it on the speed dial under "Fire."
Oh, that's it. I'm putting an end to this.
Why is it playing over again?
Mom, I need to get some sleep! I have a test tomorrow in birds suddenly appear. I mean, English.
I thought you were just a marketing gimmick.
We can't keep living like this. Moses, ask Pharaoh to let your people go.
Excuse me, uh, Pharaoh? I think Moses here has something to ask you. Go.
Keep that plague coming, Moses.
It's a plague, you moron! And we've got lots more planned, and there's nothing you can do about it!
Not now, Moses. We gotta find a way outta here.
I know we built a secret passage in here somewhere.
Eh, slave labor. You get what you pay for.
We'll never be able to swim that far.
Hey, cut that out! I have an idea.
All right, Moses, lead your people.
Yeah, yeah. Hurry, everyone! We don't have much time!
Hmm, well, actually, it looks like we're in for forty years of wandering the desert.
Uh, more or less. Hey, is that manna?
Everyone's gone!
It's the Rapture. And I never knew true love.
Dad!
Dad, I really need to rest my back.
Dad, chew with your mouth closed. You're losing your mystique.
Where are you going with that junk, Dad?
Well, if it'll help - Um, Mom found out her engagement ring is made of rock candy.
Who?
I'm sick of him already.
Well, Dad, if the museum didn't inspire you, maybe you should do something really radical, like Christo.
No, Christo is a conceptual artist who does huge outdoor projects. He once wrapped the Reichstag in plastic.
Oh, yes, and he also set up hundreds of yellow umbrellas along the California highway...
To make the world a more magical place, I guess. Although they did blow over and kill some people.
No, Dad, no. My point is you have to do something big and daring.
Well, actually, I just wrote it for a school assignment. Everyone else wrote to the Back Street Boys.
You papier mache'd my cat?!
Good work, Dad.
The future is a...
Got me? What are you talking about? I've been volunteering here for a year.
B-3.
G-52.
A banana!
Yep!
Their natural mushiness prevents choking and promotes regularity.
We tried giving them eggnog at Christmas, but it led to widespread de-shawling.
Shhh. Don't wake them.
Here you go. Make sure you get into every crevice.
The elderly aren't like you or me, Bart. They thrive on consistency, predictability, and a life with no surprises.
Picture yourself on a beautiful sailboat. Ahhh, can't you just feel the sea breeze in your hair?... or scalps?
Now we're pulling into port. And who's waiting for us at the dock? Why, it's all your childhood dogs! I see Petey and Blackie and Schnoodle and...
Bart, what are you doing?
Oh no, Bart has stolen the elderly!
Bart Simpson!
Bart, are you crazy? You've got to get the old folks home to the Old Folks Home.
Gee, Bart, maybe you were right.
They don't even seem to care that it's medication time.
How could you miss that huge boat coming right at us?
Jack LaLanne!
What the heck's going on?
Why don't you finish your own darn...
Hey, Mom, look!
Why can't we see it now?
Yeah, me too.
Ooh, I hear this really sucks. Hm, "Director's Commentary".
Ohh, poor Mr. Costner. He tries so hard.
Uh... Where are you?
Yeah, if you want to change your image, you've got to get your face out there...
Oh! ... on the radio.
Oh, I think this really sucks.
Thank you. Mm. For low-fat, this pudding's pretty good.
Unbelievable! We're rewarding people for acting like buffoons!
A pie.
Oh, this is so embarrassing.
You.
Okay, I'm leaving.
People, stop! Stop! We're not animals!
An Open Letter to the People of Springfield: Today our town lost what remained of its fragile civility, drowned in a sea of low-fat pudding.
You won second place?
We are a town of low-brows, no-brows and ignorami. We have eight malls but no symphony, thirty-two bars but no alternative theater, thirteen stores that begin with "Le Sex..." I write this letter not to nag or whine, but to prod! We can better ourselves!
Well, most of us.
Dad, did you see anything provocative in today's paper?
Dad, stop kidding around. Look, they printed my letter.
Well, I'm sure someone had the time to read it.
Hi, Mr. Flanders, I see you're reading the newspaper.
Chief Wiggum! Oh, you sure got a lotta copies of the paper.
Doesn't anybody in this town read?
Oh, absolutely! Well, you know, anything by Jane Austen...
"We read your letter with great interest. If you wish to learn more, go to 13 Euclid Street. Tell no one! And bring a dessert."
I think so.
I know that. It's also a constellation visible only from the southern hemisphere.
You want me to join Mensa? Oh, that's wonderful. But don't I have to take some sort of I.Q. test?
Aren't those supposed to be confidential?
Wow! I'm so honored you wanted me.
Oh. What do you produce?
But "rise to vote sir" is a palindrome.
Wow. Me... fit in.
My family never talks about library standards. And every time I try to steer the conversation that way, they make me feel like a nerd.
See DOS. See DOS run. Run DOS run. Only one person in a million would find that funny.
Oh Dad, I just spent the day with the most wonderful people.
Well, for the first time in my life I feel that someone understands...
This is so cool. I feel like I'm back in the Renaissance.
Someone should stand up to them.
No, we should fix things here. If we put our minds to it, there's no limit to what we can accomplish.
Please stay calm, everyone.
Done!
Well, there's no one more learned than us...
With our superior intellects, we could rebuild this city on a foundation of reason and enlightenment. We could turn Springfield into a utopia!
No, Kent. We're gonna use the power of good ideas to change things for the better...
Oh, well, we really mean it.
Okay, next item of business is our weekly progress report. Principal Skinner? How's your transportation project coming?
Excellent. Now next week is our state of the city address. Has everyone finalized their proposals?
Welcome, everyone. Today we embark on a new era of intelligent governance.
I don't remember discussing that.
What are you doing here?
Help!
Da-ad! Oh, Dr. Hawking. We had such a beautiful dream. What went wrong?
Even you?
Wow, Mom. That's very profound.
Dad, it's not...
This is "Wired." It's about computers and technology.
Hey look, there's a cyber-cafe opening right here in Springfield! Will you take me, Dad? Please? I'll show you how to order pizza over the Internet...
Bart! The Internet is more than a global pornography network. It's a...
Wow, Dad, you're surfing like a pro.
Dad, that's Fox!
Dad, do we have any money left?
Eww, we're gonna do our grocery shopping at a 99-Cent Store?
Um, according to the Mexican Council of Food, this expired two years ago.
This also says it can cause red tide poisoning.
I don't think there's enough here for a vacation.
No, no, we're going to Paris. I can feel it.
Never mind. Looks like the Flanders' are gonna get those seats anyway.
Yay! The Simpsons are going to Japan!
Look Mom, the safety instructions are written in haiku. "Fasten seatbelts tight / Your seat cushions float gently / Headsets five dollars."
It's breathtaking.
Look, there's the Imperial Gardens... the Meiji shrine... the Hello Kitty factory...
Who's up for some exploring?
What the--?
Me too. Let's go to an authentic Japanese noodle house!
Dad, we didn't come halfway around the world to eat at AmericaTown.
Don't you serve anything that's even remotely Japanese?
But you promised me we'd do something Japanese.
Now can we do something Japanese?
Oh, it's beautiful, Dad.
Yipee! Time for the company loyalty song!
I think we all had that idea.
Oh sorry, Dad, we didn't know.
Well, Maggie weighs a lot less than... oh, I'll just go.
Yes! Got 'em!
I'm proud of you, Dad. Buying an electric car will help clean the air up and protect the Earth's supply... You're faking this to get the gift, aren't you?
Ah! Dad, you're headed for the harbor!
Bart, don't...
But, Dad, I thought you hated...
Stop doing that, Mom.
But my Dad can...
Principal Skinner, what would you say is the most important firefighting tool? Would you say it's prevention?
You've really done it this time.
Ewww. Mom!
Bart! Bart! Krusty just fired his associate producer!
No way... "The Seven Habits of Highly Effective Pre-Teens?" Is this all because of the...?
Are you standing up to get me to leave?
Hey! I'm not a "Time Burglar!"
All right, I'll go! You don't have to be a jerk about it.
I'm so glad you're here. Bart's really acting funny.
You'll see...
Who are "they," exactly?
Oh, Bart, what's happened to you?
Aagghh!
Dad, that junkie is your son!
It's good to have the old Bart back. Plus you exposed the disturbing unreadiness of today's Army.
Why is the zero made out of glass?
Dad, it's great that you volunteered to drive -- but how did you get out of work?
Dad, that's an ambulance.
Wow, a bustling metropolitan newsroom, funnelling scoops from all over the globe.
And what per cent is that?
Dad, I'm sorry the editor didn't like your review.
I'll help you write a new review if you just let me use the bathroom!
Well, we went to Paté Labelle last week. How 'bout that?
The food is delicious.
Hm. What's the English equivalent for ? I'd say... transcendent.
Uh, I don't think so.
497... 498 words. Hmph.
Bon Appetit.
Wow, my first published article. Although someone else's name is on it.
And there's the cane from "Citizen Kane." Wait a minute. There was no cane in "Citizen Kane."
The food is exquisite...
Dad, that's so mean.
But what if someone bad tells me to...
Dad, you're being cruel for no reason -- what will people think?
Not anymore. I don't wanna be partners with a man who feels like that.
I'm reviewing the festival for our school paper.
We can find him faster by splitting up. You take fried foods. You take salty snacks. I'll take desserts. Break!
Dad, no!
It's gonna kill you!
Don't! Uh... um... It's low-fat!
What bad things? Why?
Uh, Dad?
I still can't believe we escaped from those horrible vampires.
We've got to go to the police.
He's getting closer!
So you were going to kill us.
I don't think the real Radioactive Man wears a plastic smock with a picture of himself on it.
Bart!
Hold the funeral, Poindexter.
Bart, with these powers, we can become superheroes!
I don't think so!
Your collecting days are over, Collector...
Stretch Dude! Help!
Bart, just let me drop and save yourself!
Wait a minute, Xena can't fly.
Oh.
You did fix them, right Dad? Because even a single faulty unit could corrupt every other computer in the world.
It's got a computer chip in it. Everything does.
Well, look at the wonders of the computer age now.
I think that was implied by what I said.
Mom, make him stop.
They're evacuating the Earth! We're saved!
They must be starting a new civilization on Mars with our best and brightest.
Actually, he's Homer Simpson. That's Bart. I'm Lisa...
Mom.
Do they really think cheapening the memory of our veterans will sell soda?
No it isn't. It's totally inaccurate--
The National Weather Service says dawn is still scheduled for six-twenty tomorrow, and to please stop calling.
Where are we gonna live?
That has people living in it. You can see them through the windows.
Could you build us a house, President Carter? We can't go back to ours.
Where are we going, Dad?
Are we really gonna live here and grow crops?
I'll weed the floor.
Oh, you poor little sheep! No one's sheared you for years!
All right. Almost done, my little friend. Soon you'll be a nice, cool... RAT?!
No thanks. I'm still finishing my thistles.
Wait, Dad, you don't have to kill yourself.
Something's growing.
Maybe the tomato seeds crossbred with the tobacco seeds.
I thought you said it tasted terrible.
"ToMacco?" That's pretty clever, Dad. I mean, for a product that's evil and deadly.
Dad, it's a tobacco company. They make billions off the suffering and deaths of others.
No, I...
You're about to launch a terrible evil on the world. You've gotta destroy this plant.
Just burn that plant right now and end this madness.
Now you can't tell me nicotine's not addictive.
Dad, this might be one of those things you should go to the hospital for.
Not Lenny!
Hey, there was no accident at the plant. Dad just wanted to go bowling!
Dad, what she's saying is you've had your moment in the sun and now it's time for you to gracefully step aside.
Sure! You can help me find three words where "y" is the vowel.
Ooh, I want to get the "Kr_nk"!
Mom, no! Everyone at school picks on the "Pöpli" kids. Even I do. I just hate them so much.
I became the most popular girl in school, but blew it by being conceited.
You already saw them.
How can he rebel? He doesn't even know where he is.
Are those real cobras?
Ew! These records used to be real accomplishments. Now they're just gross.
What a neat idea!
"Allen Ginsburgers, Un-American Cheese Sandwich, Polio Dogs..."
Dad, they have those everywhere.
Answer to what?
You keep it.
Dad, I'm tired of bathing in the yard. Plus, I think Rod and Todd are watching.
And why aren't I at school?
Dad, there's a note on the back of your head.
Korean Love Brides?!
Are you okay?
Well, we could play Clam Traffic Jam... Or the game of County Seats!
Aw, the zoning disk is warped...
I'll be in my room.
Principal Skinner, I thought public schools were required to have access ramps for the disabled.
Bart broke all my books.
Oh, a name with "fun"? Um... Fungus, Funzo, Attila the Fun...
Uh, just a few Venn diagrams.
The word is "irony."
Don't you think there's something weird going on here? We spent all day selecting fabric swatches, and then our guest speaker was "Phil from Marketing".
That's not funny... Huh?
They're spying on us. Why would they do that?
This broom closet is not what it seems. It's a secret surveillance room, guarded by a tiny, evil robot.
Listen, when you see what's inside this...
I don't understand. I could swear it was right here.
That's the doll that attacked me!
Funzo? I said that name in class.
Bart, they lied to us. Instead of giving us an education, they tricked us into designing a toy. Aren't you outraged?
Good. Saddle up the bikes.
Get down. Security guard.
The phone's not even plugged in!
You people took advantage of trusting schoolchildren!
Really?
Oh, brother.
I admit it's kind of cute, but it'll never take the place of Malibu Stacy.
Did you see that?
They must have programmed it to eliminate the competition.
Exactly. Come on, Bart, we've got to warn everyone.
Boycott Funzo. He's a toy-killing machine!
Well, I guess that's it. Come Christmas Eve, there'll be a Funzo under every tree.
Nobody! You're just gonna break into everyone's house and steal their favorite toy.
Dad, Dad, you're driving on the sidewalk.
Joy to the world / the Lord is come. / Let Earth receive her King...
Let ev-ry...
Season's Greetings.
Si-lent night...
Ho-ly night...
All is calm / All is bright / Round...
Yes. The madness ends here.
Your toy company is evil.
Are you saying the end justifies the means?
No, Bart, he's right. I did oversimplify.
Let's just agree that the commercialization of Christmas is at best a mixed blessing.
Gary...
What's in the box, Mom?
She cleaned out the attic!
/ Push! /
See Mom? You conquered your fears and now you're ready to sk--
So hard, but so rewarding... Downhill skiers missing fun... Oh, who am I kidding?
Wow, what a perfect scene. This was so worth it...
Don't worry, little friends. I won't hurt you.
Eep.
But they were trying to eat me!
But they...
Hey, Mom!
Have you been in here all day?
No they won't. We'll all pitch in on the housework, right guys? Guys...?
Oh, Mom. I've seen what you do around the house, and I can handle it. Maybe I can even make things more efficient.
Dad, where are your clothes?
Don't tell me Mom dresses you.
Okay, now we're gonna draw jobs from the chore hat.
You know, the reason for the hat...
Will you at least do the dishes?
Oh! You're gonna be late.
Here are your lunches. And no trading your fruit for firecrackers.
You stay away from Lenny. And where's your sweater, Bart?
Those boys of mine.
Okay, guys, dinner's ready...
Oop, the cheese isn't quite melted. Let me just pop it back in the...
Here you go.
Slivered almonds for the green beans! I'll be right back.
So, how was your day?
Bart, you were supposed to scour the pans!
You said that four days ago.
Look, they're rusted through.
No it's not!
Good. Maple soda?... A cell phone full of candy?... Astronaut bread?
Dad, I gave you a list!
Hey Mom, how's the leg?...
Oh, couldn't be better.
So Mom... You think you'll be getting out of there soon?
I really thought I could handle this, but...
Will you guys turn that thing down?
Stupid, inconsiderate bunch of jerks... I can't believe, after I...
Lucy?
What are you doing here?
Will this do?
You mean like when you hid inside the conga drum to scare Ricky?
Ohh, I don't like the looks of this.
We better check with a doctor.
Let's see... Crusty sores...
... Horrible wailing...
Any exposure to unsanitary conditions?
Okay, and... "diagnose".
Excellent.
Now guys, leprosy thrives in filthy conditions, so your only chance is to clean up the house. I'll get you a couple of mops.
Lazy, no-good lepers... Making me clean everything myself...
No, he isn't. I don't know where he is.
He told us he'd been going to the gym.
Mom, I lost Dad and Bart.
I tricked them into thinking they had leprosy.
Well, Dad and Bart ran away and no one seems to know where they went.
You mean Hawaii?
Dad, Bart, I played a horrible trick on you and I'm really sorry. You don't have leprosy. It's just oatmeal.
Dad, you only took one course.
You went to Springfield U. You hate A & M.
No.
Bart, I hope you don't believe your own hype.
How can you believe all this mumbo-jumbo? The bucket came off Dad's head because the bright lights heated it, causing the metal to expand.
What have you got so far?
That's nice, but maybe your Homecoming float should have something to do with college.
I think Godzilla's bigger than Superman.
Do we have any food that wasn't brutally slaughtered?
They'll have tabouleh.
Uh, Dad has the worst luck when he's drinking.
Bart did it! And they're gonna try for a field goal.
You won a Grammy.
Wow, he's got every Nancy Drew! Even the controversial "Clue in the Clock." So many swears.
I'm Princess Margaret!
Mom! Bart's making faces at me. I think.
But housesitting is a sacred...
Hey!
Don't worry, Mom. I'm sure he'll be okay.
Why are we cleaning this room? I don't think we were even in here.
It looks great. I can't believe we scrubbed that old man smell out of a hundred and thirty-seven rooms.
Ah, it's good to be home.
I hate to be a killjoy, but do you really think we can win playing "Stars and Stripes Forever"? It's so beginner band, and we're advanced beginner band.
Well, I thought maybe, for once, we could play a song that wasn't written by Sousa.
No, something fresh and bold.
Take your arm off me.
Anybody got a building permit? 'Cause we nailed it!
"Stars and Stripes Forever"? Oh, man. They're toast!
Glow sticks? But visual aids are against the rules!
I hope you enjoy your plaque, cheater.
I can't believe those idiot judges were impressed by glowing plastic tubes.
You mean State Un-fair.
Dear Mr. President
I'm writing a letter to President Clinton about that travesty of a band contest. As a fellow sax player, I'm sure he'll be outraged.
Really -- Hey, what are you doing?
Hello, I'd like to speak to President Clinton, please. I wrote to him and he never wrote back... No, I don't want Al Gore!
Is that Duncan?
Ew, you used my bracelet for a nose ring!
Thank you, Mr. President!
Mom, I think you might be developing a gambling problem.
You read my letter?
Now remember, we have to leave nature just the way we found it. Everything we pack in, we pack out.
Use this plastic bag.
Ah, we're so lucky to have this untouched piece of paradise so close to Springfield.
That doesn't sound like bees.
The Bird Sanctuary -- they ruined it!
Why do jerks think everyone wants to see their stupid name?
That's very sweet, but we have a full day of hiking planned.
Bite me.
Okay, I finished the gardening sequence.
Dad, there are other wipes besides star-wipes.
I'm taking my name off this thing.
Hey, isn't that the bass player from "Satanica"?
Mom, Dad's on PBS!
Agreed.
Microatia? That's twelve thousand miles away.
Dad?
I just want to tell you how proud I am that you're showing an interest in your fellow man.
Oh, no!
What do I save?!
Trophies! Trophies! Attendance!
Oooh, there's Ulysses S. Grant, Babe Ruth Ben Franklin...
Ewwww.
Those balloons won't biodegrade for ten thousand years. And if Bart gets a wowwipop, I want a wowwipop.
Yeah, wish I could be entertained by two cents worth of rubber, shaped like some colorful animal, dancing and twirling, dancing and twirling...
Hey, gimme that! / That's mine!
The door!
I hope they're hover-bikes.
I'm trying! Can't I get on your shoulders?
Stop kicking me!
It's going into that building.
Excuse me. We just came to get our balloon.
Thank you. "A gay president in 2084"?
I don't know if I'll be able to accept Moe as Dr. Tad Winslow.
How much farther to the campground?
Ah, something troubles me about Indian gaming. On the one hand, the revenue helps the tribes...
Excellent question. Yes, I am proud to be America's first straight female President. Helen?
Yes. Yes you were. Now, in conclusion, my administration will focus on the three R's: Reading, 'Riting and Refilling the ocean. Thank you very much.
As you know, we've inherited quite a budget crunch from President Trump. How bad is it, Secretary Van Houten?
The country is broke? How can that be?
What about my pledge to build the world's largest bookmobile? Isn't there any money left for that?
Bart!
Let him up, please.
What are you doing here?
Co-President? Are you crazy?
Sorry I'm late. I've been racking my brain, trying to think of something to cut from the budget.
Hey, where's Maggie?
Appointed a Supreme Court Justice.
Dad, that's just a myth. Lincoln didn't hide any gold in the White House.
Hey, that's my helicopter!
Bart, you do not send a billion-dollar helicopter to pick up your drinking buddy.
No, I didn't.
I am proud to honor the players of the Negro Leagues of Rollerball. And as we strive for the desegregation of all deathsports, we cannot help but be inspired by...
Bart, get out of here!
I can't relax! Being president is hard work. Maybe you should try doing something with your life.
Yeah. Did you even call about that messenger job?
If I'm gonna bail the country out... I'll have to raise taxes. But in my speech, I'd like to avoid calling it a "Painful Emergency Tax."
See, that has the same problem. We need to soften the blow.
I love it!
Fiscal solvency.
Not now, Bart. I'm about to speak to a hundred million people. This speech could make or break my presidency.
Are you insane?
My fellow Americans, and voting illegal aliens: I will not mince words. Your country needs you. That's why today I am proposing a Temporary Refund Adjustment.
The months ahead will be long and arduous. But it is only through arduousity th...
Uh, this is my brother Bart, who doesn't seem to realize this isn't the best time for his music. He's one of the people I want to help with my programs.
Goodnight, America.
Why you little...
At Camp David? Sure. They couldn't keep pants on Kissinger.
Thanks a lot, Bart. All right, how can we pay off our foreign debt?
We don't own the shores of Tripoli.
Whoa, whoa, whoa! Why don't we just invite our creditor nations here, and gently remind them of America's past generosity?
Ooh, but Bart could screw everything up...
No, just keep him out of my hair.
No!
Bart, we're having a meeting.
I have a lot of meetings. I'm the President.
You know something, Bart? You're right. My lack of coolness is really holding America back.
You're too much, Bart. That's why I'm appointing you "Secretary Of Keeping It Real."
Absolutely. I want you and your pals to go away to Camp David and write up a report on coolness.
Please, calm down. We can work something out.
Bart, you're supposed to be at Camp David.
Thanks Bart, you bought us some time. What can I do to thank you?
Legalize what? Oh, oh. Consider it done.
There you are. Come on, we have to go. Dad pushed a waitress. And Mom lost twenty thousand dollars.
Really? Anything good?
What about me?
Mr. Gumbel, you're upsetting me.
Did Gaga just say "hurt everyone"?
It does?
Well, it shouldn't be too hard to beat the old photo.
Hmmm.
And it's still got a roll of film in it.
Bart, we need that to win the contest.
That picture's a cliché .
Now, when the mama bird returns to feed her babies, we'll have a prize-winning picture.
Is that Rainier Wolfcastle?
Okay, that's it... looks good... Oh, Bart, the bulldog didn't ante!
Okay, on three. One... two...
Hey! No fair! We'll never get a good picture.
Boy, you can see everything from Mount Springfield. The Squidport, the old monorail...
Ow! Bart, that's hot!
Ow!
Dad, help!
No, you saved our lives.
What?
All right! / Cool! / Lemme see!
Well, at least we won the bike.
What? / How could you?
Dad, those are just the names of the quizzes. You're supposed to open the magazine.
Why don't you be the quizmaster and ask other people the questions?
Some of us have grammar school in the morning, you know.
Mom! Bart's sitting next to me!
Oh, no! We came during Spring Break!
Look at the size of that gator!
ROCK AND ROLL.
You can't drive, Dad. He's got your license.
Dad, what do we do?!
Hey, where is Dad?
Not really, no.
Ewww.
Wow, look at all the stars you can see here.
Too hot to bicker, I reckon.
Got that right. / Durn tootin'. / Boy howdy.
What should I do?
Run!
North Dakota, here we come!
Dad, I've got Maggie.
It got rave reviews from both the Entertainment Radio Network and the Radio Entertainment Network. Let's go!
Oh, he'll never dance with her. She'll have to settle for some Mexican Milhouse.
That's my name with bella on the end of it. Ask her, oh God, please ask her to dance.
She's not plain, she's beautiful!
Oh, Mom. I want to be a dancer!
Well, I think World War II helped a little, Mom.
But I want to learn a dance I can use in real life, like the Tango de la Muerte.
Nope.
Sorry. The floor's kind of at an angle here. I'm gonna move over there.
What am I doing wrong, Little Vicki?
Yeah, well, no offense, but maybe I need a little more instruction than just tap-a-tap-a-tap-a.
Sorry. I'm just frustrated.
I'm just walking. Listen, I know I said I wanted to be a dancer, but...
But I just... need more practice. See ya!
It's me!
The cat dances better than I do.
Why?
Excuse me...
Why isn't my name in the program?
Curtain puller?!
But my parents are counting on seeing me dance! And I've worked ever so hard.
All right, I'll be the stupid curtain puller.
I get your pull-a-pull-a-pull-a...
Most entertaining, but how does that help me?
Ohhhhhh. That's brilliant, Professor! What will you think of next?
I've gotta go now.
Little Vicki, I figured out how to dance. I can be in the show now!
But, but you don't understand...
Yes?!
I can't help it! It's the shoes!
Oh, please stop!
Stop clapping!
Oh, thanks, Dad.
I'm sorry, Vicki. I just wanted to be a dancer so badly.
You mean I danced all by myself?
Forget it, Dad. I guess I'm never gonna be your Broadway Baby.
You think so?
Oh, I love you guys.
Bart, quit it!
Bart sleeps with Raggedy Andy.
Oh, Mom, you're not supposed to throw rice anymore. Birds eat it, their stomachs swell and they explode.
They're pigs?
Dad, the bride and groom are supposed to cut the wedding cake!
Thank you.
Moe, can I give you some shrimp for the road?
Well, Mom, you really brought out the mung in these beans.
We're jamming, Mom. She's painting my music, and I'm playing to her painting.
Isn't it wonderful to have a hip female influence in the house?
It's my favorite!
C'mon, Becky. Tell us your big news.
Awww. / Oh, no.
Poor Maggie. How many insanity hearings have you been to in your short little life?
Shouldn't we be out there trying to find her?
Oh, I really miss Mom.
And I'm directing the "Making Of" video.
I had no business hosting the Oscars. After the show, Meryl Streep spit on me.
Sheriff Lowbrow...
Dad, that's too much deterge--
It was amazing how fast Dad betrayed his vision of a realistic show.
Shut up all of you, or I'll sue.
Suddenly, I was invited to every birthday party. Sometimes I'd have to read the cake just to know who I was singing to.
None of us had ever sung before. But Mr. Geffen believed in us.
Wow...
It was such an honor to be on the Walk of Fame. I mean, there we were with Hollywood royalty, like Milton Berle and Nelson Mandela.
We were earning millions, but we were always strapped for cash.
Dad, I want to go to bed. Aren't there child labor laws?
Right from the start, I had a bad feeling about that gig.
What kind of song should we play?
Swings!
Swings!
Folks, we're just having a little family tiff. If you'll just bear with us...
Oh, that's it!
To prolong the run of the series, I was secretly given anti-growth hormones.
Hey, what's goin' on?
So this whole thing was just a trick to get us back together.
I wanna see Wilmington!
It really says "die"? That sounds unusually specific for a horoscope.
Ow! Son of a...
But these fairy tales take me away from the harsh reality of peasant life.
Hey!
Face it -- they're not great parents.
No! That bridge has a troll under it!
Everything in this forest is from a fairy tale! And this book can keep us one step ahead!
Hmm... Bowls of porridge... Oh, this seems somehow familiar... Let's see...
We're in The Three Bears house!
I wonder where Goldilocks was.
Wait, let me check the book.
You're probably right.
Oh, this is horrible!
You know she's only fattening you up so she can eat you.
Well, at least stop basting yourself!
Yeah, right. / I'm sure. / Pffft.
Oh yeah? What's his name?
George Cauldron? Maybe he can fix me up with Ed Ladle.
Father, I knew you'd rescue us!
Oh, Snorky...
It's okay, they're gone now. You can...
Hey, where are you going?
Oh, you want to be with your friends.
Go on! Swim to freedom! Go!
Killer dolphins?
Plus all that sewage we keep dumping.
Oh, no. You poor thing. Here...
I kinda wish I hadn't freed their leader and, you know... doomed mankind.
Well, according to WhatBadgersEat.Com, "Badgers subsist primarily on a diet of stoats, voles and marmots."
Stoats are weasels, Bart. They don't come in cans.
That says "corn," Bart.
Here we are. "In a pinch, badgers have even been known to eat woodpeckers."
No, Dad! We don't want to kill him! Let's call animal control.
How did the badger do that without ripping your shirt?
It's a movie, Dad.
If you ask me...
... it's stupid to divide the city over something as silly as an area code. It would be like you and mom splitting up every time you have a fight.
Mom!
I'm so conflicted.
Dad, you're bleeding.
Dad, the arena's in Olde Springfield.
What's going on here?
Oh, yeah? You didn't blow up Maggie's room.
You've ruined all my stuff.
It is my birthday.
Well, the Book Festival starts today...
Ms. Tan, I loved "The Joy Luck Club". It really showed me how the mother-daughter bond can triumph over adversity.
But...
Catch, Dad, catch!
Dad! Dad!
Daaaad!
I'm all for ethnic diversity, but this is just pandering.
What a waste...
There you go, little fish.
Bart, do you know how many trees died to make those menus?
You're ruining the earth.
Don't you call me a--
No, I think they're protesters.
No, you can't!
Are you all right?
Oh, you're so heroic.
Dad, change it back!
No I don't!
Shut up!
I'd like to visit a prisoner.
Aren't you coming with me?
Jesse?
You do yoga?
My name's Lisa Simpson. I think your protest was incredibly brave.
Oh, the earth is the best. That's why I'm a vegetarian.
Well, um, I was thinking of going vegan!
Wow. Um... I started an organic compost pile at home.
Oh, it's so decomposed! Do you think I could join Dirt First?
Oh, thank you, thank you!
You're welcome to come, too.
Mom, Dad, there's something I have to do. You're not gonna like it, but I really believe it's the right thing.
Oh, I didn't think it would be so high... Maybe I could just circulate a petition...
Oh, I'll show you.
Well, this looks like a good place to set up camp.
Wow, what a view.
Not so fast!
I won't come down till you spare this tree!
It's Lisa!
He said I was hard core.
It's okay, Mom! I have a safety line!
All right! A care bucket.
Hot Thai soup! Ohhh, Bart... "Dear Lisa. You rock! Mom is calling rescue agencies. Dad is building a giant ladder, but it is of poor quality. We miss you, Bart." Awww.
Oh, seven o'clock. The family's just sitting down to dinner.
Awww.
Now they're making popcorn...
And hanging Christmas stockings!
And coloring Easter eggs!
Oh, I can't take it! Would it be so bad if I just went home for an hour?
Don't worry, I'll be right back.
Ew, someone's been marking their territory.
Hey, everybody! I...
Aww.
I'll just rest here for a minute.
Ooh, it's morning. I gotta get back!
Oh, no.
Oh Mom, those loggers chopped down the tree! Why did I have to leave my post?
Lightning?! Well, at least it wasn't my fault.
Dad, I'm not dead!
He cut off his favorite dread!
No, Mom. It's a memorial forest now. If I'm alive, they'll cut it down!
Dear Moe, if anything should ever happen to me, I want you to tear up my dad's tab, and pour cocktail onions... Dad, I can't--
... pour cocktail onions down your pants.
Nooo!
I'm not dead! And neither is my sense of moral outrage.
Sir, have you no shame?
Aw, Jesse. They locked you up again.
Well, I'll write you letters. On rice paper, with a soy pencil!
Not yet.
Just a cotton-pickin' minute. I've been getting A's since Gymboree.
You gave Bart one.
Dad, what happened to the back seat?
Thank you, Dad.
Something's wrong. Terribly wrong.
Dad?? The panda was you?
Oh, Dad.
So, this is your mysterious new job for Mr. Burns?
Oh Dad, you have to stop.
He doesn't want your dirty money.
Not my Dad.
Dad, how can you put a price on your dignity?
Da-ad!
Forget about him, Dad. I'm proud of you.
Well, there's lots of needy kids out there...
No, Dad. You could really brighten the holidays for those less fortunate.
I'm so proud! My dad will be the grand finale of the Thanksgiving Day Parade.
Something tells me he is.
Pranksgiving? Uh-oh...
Oh, Dad. You sold your soul.
Dad! But if you're here, who's that on the float?
Dad, you shouldn't drag that around.
Dad, I'll set up your computer. Why don't you and Bart go play in the back yard?
Okay, you're ready to go. I've written down the basic commands so that anyone can understand them.
Well... a web page is supposed to be a personal thing. You've just stolen copyrighted material from everyone else. They could sue you for that.
Mom wants you to come to bed.
You have to offer people something: a joke, an opinion, an idea...
You can't post that on the Internet. You don't even know if it's true.
I'm happy you got the potholes filled, but it's still irresponsible to present rumors as facts. Maybe you should quit while you're ahead.
Well, you can't post news if you don't have any.
At least take off your Pulitzer Prize when you say that.
Oh, Dad...
Can I turn this off?
Yes, the island.
Are you really gonna drink that?
Mom, you're missing a great show.
Wow, Mom got a laugh.
What happened to Mom?
That's a party magic college.
Ya-huh!
Ya-huh!
It looks like a sturgeon.
How'd you do your act? You left your magic kit here.
I dunno, Mom. I think they're up to something...
Is that a Long Island Iced Tea?
What did he look like?
Anything else?
We did.
Nice work, everybody!
I know it seems farfetched, even insulting to your intelligence. But, there's a simple and highly satisfying explanation. You see...
The Cirque de Purée. We've had tickets since Septembre.
As French Canadians, they don't believe in refunds, or exploiting animals for entertainment.
They made an elephant!
Look, the Sea Captain's all hunkered down.
Yay!
This couldn't have less to do with Christmas! And I think that's a stagehand.
No, Bart. For all we know, hundreds of rescue workers are digging us out right now.
"Lisa is an outstanding student, with a slight tendency toward know-it-all-ism." That's not even a word!
It sounded like a silo tipping over!
And the exhaust pipe is leaking.
Wait, I'm confused. Why was a wolf shooting a web?
Excuse me, but isn't that voice very similar to the Cowardly Lion?
Well maybe if Mom didn't make such dry waffles. There, I said it!
It is!
It's true!
I'd love to go to the library with you.
Dad, did you read all these books today?
I always dreamed you'd be my library buddy.
No, really. I think books have an amazing power to bring people together. Look, even Cletus is checking one out.
Dad, as intelligence goes up, happiness often goes down. In fact, I made a graph.
I make a lot of graphs.
Oh, many things: Tai Chi, Chai Tea... But I find, when I can't keep the unhappy thoughts from swirling in my brain, the best thing is usually a nice long walk.
Ah, now for a little powder blue.
Oh, no. He wouldn't!
Dad, how could you? We were connecting in such a meaningful way.
Hey, what's this?
"Lisa: I'm taking the coward's way out. But before I do, I just want you to know: Being smart made me appreciate how amazing you really are."
Oh, Dad.
I'm gonna wear my apron on the Fourth of July.
Da-ad!
They are coming back for us, aren't they?
How's your back, Dad?
So, how was it in the slammer?
That scary guy?
It's so passionate. It almost leaps off the wall.
You know what'd be good with these, is some Ms. Butterworth.
Let's have a breakfast meeting.
Eww, how long has this baking soda been in here?
I'll call poison control. Fran, it's me. Just a heads-up.
Uh-oh. Dad's having an antacid trip.
Ooh, it says here that special effects whiz Tom Savini is gonna be appearing at the comic book store tonight!
Milhouse, I'm impressed.
The store is so busy. You and Bart are really great businessmen.
Tough break, toots. I need a man who answers to no one. A full manager.
Practicing tennis.
Especially bonnets.
I don't know what this has to do with the Civil War.
Dad, you're just going through a classic oedipal anxiety. You remember the story of Oedipus, don't you?
Oedipus killed his father and married his mother.
I'm just saying you feel threatened by Bart, but it's all in your head.
Dad, I think you're overreacting.
This session's over.
Goodbye.
Are you sure you want me to be your doubles partner?
And you're not doing it out of spite?
Dad, I don't want to enter the tournament just to hurt Mom.
What's so funny? I'm better than you.
How would you know? Your backhand looks like a rusty gate.
All we can do is play our very best.
Venus Simpson? You're replacing me?
Me neither. I'm just enjoying some world-class tennis.
The answer is "bonbon"!
I can't believe Krusty's retiring. This is tragic!
Well, Dad, I think running's good exercise -- it adds years to your life.
You got all your equipment, Dad?
That's not Grampa. Dad's just dehydrated.
Wait, what was that?
Mommm, can't Bart get his massage somewhere else?
What does it mean?
There's something weird about this video...
No, something else...
Yvan eht nioj? They keep saying that.
Uncle Sam? Let me play this backwards.
They're recruiting people with subliminal messages!
Otto, what are you doing?
You're being brainwashed.
L.T., thank God you're here! The government's putting subliminal messages in your videos!
Is that a navy tattoo?
Lieutenant Smash...
A wig! But, but your pant legs...
How could you soil the good name of Star Blitzzz Promotions?
But you have recruiting ads on TV. Why do you need subliminal messages?
Super-liminal?
Cut it out! You're a grown man!
An aircraft carrier? Oh, that's subtle.
Meh.
M-E-H. Meh.
Okay, we have our choice of Rectangle Land, Cube Country or Squaresville.
But you made it out of ham cubes.
Ow! Ow!
It's okay, but it's missing a piece.
Yaaayy!
Thank you, Dad.
Great!
Thanks again, Dad.
Bart's got a girlfriend!
Bart's got a problem!
There's all kinds of ways to get the public on your side. Bob Dylan wrote songs. Cesar Chavez staged hunger strikes.
Dad, I'm so proud of you. If you need some inspiration, here's a book of Mike Farrell's core beliefs.
Why don't you just cook less?
That ad campaign may have crossed a line.
But Mom, the school's right here.
Oh, it's tough being the new kid. Someone should go talk to her.
Give her a break. Remember your first day at school?
Well, someone's gotta make her feel welcome.
Hi there.
My name's Lisa. What's yours?
Well, lots of people like jazz fusion...
They're not dolls, they're aspiration figures. But it might work.
Uh, Francine? I think we got off to a bad start so... Hey!
You like Malibu Stacey, too?
And you like the same one I like -- with the Grad-student Glamour Pack... just like the one in my... ...locker. That's mine, isn't it?
How about jazz? Do you like jazz?
Milhouse? She got you, too?
Knock-knock...
Would you bullies be interested in some bodyguard work?
Well I'm gonna need full coverage -- my bully is highly aggressive. Check out these Indian burns.
Yeah, she's a real purist.
Wow. There's so much I don't understand about bullying.
Um-um.
I just don't understand Francine's motivation.
Why does she only go after the smart ones?
Someone will. I'm gonna crack the bully code.
Willie, I need to see the school security tapes.
It's hard to miss the cameras.
Why does the school need to watch us all the time?
Ooh, here's the tape I need.
How did she know I was there?
Hey, that time she looked right at me and didn't touch me.
Hmm...
Of course! The nose clip!
Hey Willie, I think I'm onto something! Check this out!
Not talking, eh Willie? Just listen, then. I think I figured out what sets off that big ape Francine... Willie? Willie?
Come on, people! Move it! I want to see some sweat!
I believe the key to bully-nerd antagonism lies in your drippings.
Excellent, now don't mind the squeegee.
Mr. Tatum, do you mind if I swab you with this damp rag?
Please? It's for science.
Shh. It's working. Look.
Yes!
I know, and the crowd is so distinguished. The inventor of the walkie-talkie is out there.
Third row, near the aisle.
My study is entitled "Airborne Pheromones and Aggression in Bullies".
For as long as there have been smart people, there have been bullies to prey on them. From Galileo...To Sir Isaac Newton...And even in the animal kingdom...
But why do the brawny prey on the brainy? Is it jealousy?
No. The reason is chemical.
Please, Dr. Koop. Let me demonstrate.
This is my test subject, Francine.
I'd like to thank her parents for helping with the caging.
I have isolated the chemical which is emitted by every geek, dork, and four-eyes. I call it "Poindextrose".
The bully has caught my scent, and she's at maximum rage. Professor Frink?
Actually, it's just ordinary salad dressing.
The pungent vinegar and tangy Roquefort block the smell receptors, rendering the bully harmless.
A gift certificate from J.C. Penney?
No, Dad! Didn't you listen to anything I said?
The repellent's all gone!
My teacher said I need cupcakes. Cupcakes to learn.
We need these because we have... to...
There's gotta be something to eat in this house.
"Find the golden giraffe, and we'll send you and your family to Africa."
Yayyy!
Africa looks like a beautiful jewel.
Hey, how ya doin' there? / Hi! / Hello. / Yo, Kitenge! What's going on?
Isn't that cute? A bush-baby.
No, Mom.
When do we get to see the animals?
Hey, you didn't see a warthog!
Mom! Bart implied I was a warthog!
Wait, rhinos don't come from eggs.
I know, but...
Oh, now come on...
That's terrible!
I don't care. I hate them.
Hey, Mom.
Look what Mbali gave me.
No they don't. They--
The left! Go to the left!
Oh, no! We're headed for Victoria Falls!
Are we insane yet? Are we insane yet? Are we insane yet?
Hello, little fella.
This is the place I've read about! Where Dr. Bushwell lives among the chimps!
No, Dr. Bushwell is a woman.
Your work has really inspired me, Doctor. And I love your sensible ponytail.
Oh no! It's the poachers!
Hey! Ah! Stop it, you creep!
Greenpeace?
Well, if you really cared about chimps, you'd know that Dr. Bushwell is their best friend.
The chimps are running a diamond mine?!
Dr. Bushwell!
How could you exploit your beloved chimps like this?
These are just pictures of monkeys from famous movies.
Buzz off.
/ Oh, he got overthrown!
I'll get us out of this. Say Dad, want to go see my project for the school science fair?
Meet Linguo, the grammar robot. I built him all by myself. If you misuse language, he'll correct you.
Dad, no!
This is why I can't have nice things.
I'll get us out of this. Say Dad, want to go see my project for the school science fair?
Dad, no!
This is why I can't have nice things.
Hang on, Linguo. You'll be up and conjugating in no time.
Quiet, please! Some of us are trying to weld! Almost done. Just lay still.
I knew that. Just testing.
Sentence fragment is also a sentence fragment.
Just come on.
Uh-oh, the bus!
Hey, stop! Wait! Oh, any day but science project day!
Oh no! Somebody took my bike?! Mom, I need a ride to school.
Can you take me to school, Krusty?
Thanks, Mr. Teeny!
Huh? This isn't Miss Hoover's class.
What's happening? Where am I?
West Springfield?
I'm at the wrong school!
Sorry. I was rushing because I'm in the wrong school. Can you believe that?
You know about I.M. Pei? I.M. impressed.
As in Monk?
What do your friends call you?
Just like me!
Oh my God, it's 11:15!
We've been spinning for hours! I've got to get to my school and hand in Linguo. Oh, but I don't want to leave you.
Will I ever see you again?
Hmmm... It's noon -- that's about when Dad gets the brew-shakes.
My Dad's not here? I need a ride to school.
Chief Wiggum, can you drive me to school? It's an emergency.
That sounds like Fat Tony.
Mom? Where'd you get that car?
Can you take me to school? Please?
I've gotta get to school.
Mom, I have to get to school. It's ten to three!
There's the school!
First place, here I come. Look out!
Look out!
...As the circulation returns, the subject prepares for a long and painful recovery.
It's lucky for me that Legs was an experienced mob doctor.
Wow, look at all these flavors: Blessed Virgin Berry... Command-Mint... Biblegum...
There's nothing here.
Are you blushing, Mr. Flanders?
That was great. I can't believe she found a rhyme for Hezekiah.
I thought you didn't like her.
We're the neighbors, and we don't think.
Don't listen to him. You just have a good time at the eye doctor.
Bye, Mr. Flanders.
Don't throw this away. It's Rod's first tooth.
You said we were doing this out of friendship.
It looks like an amusement park.
How about asking the community for donations?
He's speaking in tongues!
No, Dad! I think there's a leak in the line.
Eight.
So many times we've seen our father go under the knife.
And I've got a rally for take back the afternoon.
I've never seen the baby get tired of it before the adult.
I can't remember the last time Dad sang us a torch song.
What about us?
They're always laughing. Laughing at nothing.
I guess Dad just takes us for granted.
It's my room!
Night will come soon.
Well, I've been cutting the felt kinda crooked.
Back to normal.
We just spliced in some home movies. Whaddaya think?
Yeah. / Pretty much.
I wanna see Wilmington!
Excuse me...
Paul Bunyan never fought Rodan. And his size seems to be really inconsistent. I mean, one minute he's ten feet tall, the next his feet are as big as a lake...
I'm just sayin'...
Got any more tall tales?
Uhhh, could we hear another tall tale?
Don't forget apple sauce.
That's not a tall tale. It's a book by Mark Twain.
We're gonna visit the place where J.C. Penney sends their damaged merchandise.
Mini toothpaste.
Maybe you need to take the leprechaun and sic it on the gypsy.
Ohh, let's try Matthew Perry!
Isn't that the voice that caused all those suicides?
No, Pierce Brosnan. A voice like his would give our house a much-needed touch of class.
Soyghetti-O's!
/ Wow.
Ew!
We have to disable its central processor! C'mon!
Dad, that's the water softener!
There must be someone who can use a man around the house, even if he's slightly homicidal.
Abraca-dairy!
Five-minutes-more-ious!
Hocus-croakus!
Bart, you're getting vomit on my prince. Head Zeppelin!
Release the dragon!
Alakazai dragon fly!
This isn't my wand. It's a Twizzler!
The Dark Lord Montymort, Absorber of Souls, Sucker of Essence!
Help me, Bart!
Bart, you saved me.
Bart, let's stop this stupid rivalry. Even if you never become a great sorcerer, you're still an okay brother.
Hey, Karie.
Creative sentencing is common these days. That's why Bill Clinton is our new mailman.
Ack!
Granted. But you gotta admit, constant supervision has been good for Bart. He might even make the honor roll, if Dad can control his night terrors.
You are not.
Oh, poor Mom and Dad.
Do you think it's fair that you're always getting into trouble, yet Mom and Dad are being punished?
Well, why don't you do something about it?
When are you gonna start taking responsibility for your actions?
You're not even listening!
That's my brother.
Judge Snyder? Motion to declare a writ of "boys will be boys."
Woo hoo!
We promise.
Where's Bart? His Mountain Dew's getting flat.
It's not a school project. I'd've heard of it. I'd better go check it out.
What are you doing?
Why?
A hole for what?
O-kay then.
You keep digging like this, you're gonna go straight through to China.
This is pretty far to go just to spite Moe.
Can we go to bed now?
But you're not even using them.
Hunting? Dad, no!
It's not fair, Dad. Why should an animal die just because you and Moe are fighting?
Do you really think the turkey's just gonna climb onto the plate?
Moe?
You don't like me? I like you.
Dad's gonna slaughter that poor turkey!
You did it, Moe!
Dad, you shot Moe!
How'd they get your bar back to normal so quickly, Moe?
I did. You owe REM an apology for, eco-fraud.
And we should all be thankful to Michael, Peter and Mike for supplying this beautiful turkey, made entirely of tofu.
I love Chinatown... although I wish they'd stop picking on Tibet Town.
How is the Feast of Twelve Delights with Triple Happiness Sauce?
Then I'll have the sweet 'n' sour rice.
Neither, thank you.
No!
I don't know.
Some people enjoy being alone, Mom.
That means Dad's not a kidnapper. He's a hostage.
He did it! He saved her!
Well, the important thing is, they're both safe.
I think it can.
I came home as quick as I could. What's going on?
You pulled me out of school for this?!
Mom, I believe you.
Now you've done it. You really humiliated Mom.
I suggest dinner and a show.
Dad, what's wrong?
Well, the Yaqui Indians brew a special tea that unlocks memories.
No Dad, everyone's sick of that memory!
Try to remember back when you were twelve. Something frightening must have happened.
We're trying to uncover a hidden trauma in my Dad's childhood.
Murder most foul?
You know, if Dad never told anyone, that body must still be out there.
Stop saying that, Dad.
Hey, there's Mesmerino.
We're investigating a possible murder case.
We'll never find the body under all this water.
Hey, what's that over there?
And who sent it down that pipe?
Yes.
Mr. Smithers' father!
That's just a dog in a space suit.
You know it is.
Well, at least it's tasteful.
What are they doing to the church?
I feel like I want to throw up.
Why does Jesus have a lasso?
That could not be more blasphemous.
I am not gonna be taken in by all of this.
That's it!
They should take a good look at themselves, and what their church has become!
Like the whore of Babylon?
No it's not, it's apt! Apt!
Don't you see what Mr. Burns has done to this church?
Those are all wonderful things. But they've cost the church its soul. And I, for one, will not be a part of it!
No! I'm leaving this church forever!
Lord, I'm not turning my back on You. I just need to find a temple that's free of corruption.
Mom, I know it's you.
I can't believe you're eavesdropping on my prayers!
I still believe in God. I just think there's another path to Him, or Her.
Yep.
No.
No! Look, I'm not just gonna pick a religion that seems cool. I'm gonna pick one that's right for me.
I'm going out for a walk.
Lenny and Carl?
You guys are Buddhists?
Well, I'm looking for a new faith. One that isn't so materialistic.
Richard Gere?
Mr. Gere, I was hoping Buddhism could bring me inner peace. Or is that just a pipe dream?
That would be so great.
"Nirvana is achieved through right views and right speech... Positive actions lead to happiness and negative actions lead to unhappiness... No creator gods, just the pursuit of enlightenment..."
I'm a Buddhist!
Hey, I'm a Buddhist!
Mom, Dad, my spiritual quest is over...
I'm a Buddhist.
A Buddhist wouldn't want any.
I'm planting my own Bodhi tree. If I meditate under it, perhaps I can find inner peace.
No.
Om Mani Padme Hung. Om Mani Padme Hung. Om Mani Padme Hung.
Well, they do smell good...
I just came down for a glass of water.
Well, Santa can take it back because I'm not ruled by material desi-- Is that a pony?
Awww...
No!
My family tried to trick me into celebrating Christmas!
Oh, sorry.
Whaa?
I can really celebrate Christmas?
Oh, I'll send you an email greeting card.
Now I really should be getting back to my family.
Yeah, I wanted to spend Christmas with you guys.
No, I'm still Buddhist, but I can worship with my family too.
Uh huh.
Thanks, Mom. Hey, where's my pony?
I'm serious, make with the pony.
Here, Clip-Clop. Here pony, pony.
We've got Star Wars Monopoly, Rasta-mon-opoly, Galip-olopoly... Edna Krabappoly...
Pennsylvania Avenue. I wanna buy a house.
Hey, where'd they go?
These hotels are made of Legos.
Bart, you're cheating!
Oh sure, you take his side. Just 'cause he bought you that house on St. James Place.
Mom, that's not how you pry them apart.
And we carried it out as a family!
Thanks a lot, everybody. Now I'll never get into an Ivy League school.
Take it back! Take it back!
Well, my room is my sanctuary. My family knows that and respects that.
Just ten more years! / Just ten more years! / Just ten more years!
Thank you.
Gabriel, are you okay?
Look, we can't fall into old patterns. We've gotta think of a plan.
Fine, I'll talk like this.
Dad's on the log. Now Mom, you get the car and pull them to safety.
Now, Bart!
Could this be the end of our series... of events?
Doesn't it bother you that you're breaking up our family?
I'm eight years old.
We had a good run.
I'm so sorry, Grampa.
But I have to save them! The books no one buys get chopped up and fed to pigs.
It was originally published to settle arguments in taverns.
Francis of Assisi .
Only on Mars.
Here, have one of my fudge-stuffed toaster pies.
Mmm...
Why don't you file a class-action suit?
That's okay, Mom. Today's law schools are churning out two point one lawyers for every person in America. Look.
We have to sign up plaintiffs, and take depositions from the townspeople.
Is it really worth risking your lives just for some sugar?
Godspeed.
You do this every year. We are used to it.
Ooh, a salute to brunch! Wave to brunch, Maggie!
Why is this movie PG-13?
These are so easy. It's obviously Tom Hanks.
Who?
Maybe we should try to calm Dad down.
You wanna know what happened?
Really?
We were playing four square, and I called no double taps, and Ralph double taps. And I said "You're out". And he says "I can do a sum-ber-salt" which has nothing to do with anything.
Aww... maybe a hug will cork her cry-hole.
Thanks for listening, Dad.
We gotta coordinate on this thing.
Dad, you've gotta do something.
She could get hurt!
I thought you liked the new Dad.
She's not on drugs. She couldn't sleep because of Dad's chronic snoring.
This is not a good time.
Mom, did you sleep well at your sisters'?
Mmmmm.
Hey, a helicopter's landing on our lawn!
Hey, where's our parents?
He must have taken a job in the West Springfield oil patch. That's practically a death sentence!
But West Springfield's three times the size of Texas. We'll never find him there.
"Springfield Preparatory School?!" Dad, you told me there were no private schools in Springfield!
This school has everything.
Their periodic table has two hundred and fifty elements!
You know, we could get equipment like this through a bond issue.
Principal Skinner, you're just stealing.
No, I belong here! Pleeeaaase!
I will not be a Gamecock!
No!
Nooo!
Bratwurst, sauerbraten, donderblitzen... Mom, isn't there anything vegetarian?
Greta called. It seems you told her you were sick.
Bart, this girl is in love with you. Think about it.
Well, if you don't feel the way Greta does, you've got to tell her before she gets hurt.
Well Bart, you really understand women.
And where were you?
Oh, Bart, it's human nature. You only want her because someone else has her.
All right. Look, Maggie's not playing with this ball right now. But look what happens when I take it.
See?
Maggie, what do you think?
Dad, no. It says "don't walk"!
You know that new baby brother Ralph's been bragging about? It's just a pinecone.
Let's go where it's quiet.
I said "let's go".
Dad, it's a documentary on the homeless.
So Bart, when does the killing start?
I met one of my heroes today. She started the f--
Gee Buck, your old films are as violent as today's!
Why are you driving a car?
I'm Annie Oakley!
We also represent Billy Joel.
Plus he'll work for scale.
No one expects you to do anything difficult. They understand you're too old.
You know what? I bet he can't even fit into his old costume.
Texas.
Dad, I'm on the LINE.
I'm really gonna miss him.
Grampa!
Look Grampa, you're already getting a new neighbor.
This game makes no sense.
Give Grampa a chance. Statistics show that old people drive at least as well as sleep-deprived apes.
See you later, I'm going to the library.
Hey, I've earned their trust.
He must have dropped this.
But how? Branson is a thousand miles away and we've got no car.
Oh, that was lucky.
Well, how do we get to Branson?
Mom, there's no gambling in Branson. It was designed as a family destination.
Look Mom, it's your car. Grampa and Bart must be in that theater!
Mom, you're hurting me.
This has been a Gracie Films pray-sentation!
Here's the book... "Classics for Children?"
Why don't you read to us now?
No Dad. It's an epic tale from ancient Greece.
What are you laughing at, Dad?
No, Mom. Joan of Arc.
...and please bless Mama and Papa and Bartrand and Coco Chanel...
But I'm just a little girl.
Victory.
God spoke to me -- I must obey.
That's just you, Bart.
Yes, sir.
Wait! I have been sent to lead the French army to victory.
With modern ideas -- like putting bigger, harder people in the catapults. Or how 'bout rocks?
And now... attack!
I would gladly kneel -- were you the real king!
You are the true Dauphin. You had this impostor try to fool me, to see if I was truly sent by God.
Uh, God says we should just be friends.
Let us kill the English! Their concept of individual rights could undermine the power of our beloved tyrants!
You can't stop me! I was sent by God!
I want my Mommy!
I would like to call my only witness: almighty God.
Is that true, Lord?
Don't worry, beloved parents. God won't let anything happen to me.
Huh. Getting kind of hot around here.
What happened, Dad? They didn't really burn her, did they?
Look, this story is more interesting than you think. It starts with Hamlet's father getting murdered.
Oh great, now Hamlet's acting crazy. Well, nobody out-crazies Ophelia! Hey, nonny, nonny, with a hoo and a haw and a nonny, nonny, hey...
And that's the greatest thing ever written.
I need to call Janey, but I can't get a dial tone.
Why must you fight with every utility?
What call to Brazil?
Uh-oh.
Please don't be mad. I've been sponsoring an orphan boy in Brazil.
Ronaldo used to send me a letter every month, but then they stopped. That's why I called the orphanage, but they said he'd disappeared.
Well, then they started pressuring me for more donations. And you can't hang up on a nun.
When I sent my first donation, the charity mailed me this video.
Awww.
A hundred and fifty-six million.
Not if we buy our tickets on the internet. It's really cheap if we change planes in Phoenix, Honolulu, Sun City, and East St. Louis, spend a night in a haunted house and leave right now.
Except Antarctica.
Okay, here's some travel tips: only drink bottled water... don't get into an unlicensed taxi... and remember, they have winter during our summer.
That's right.
Mm-hmm.
No Dad, it's just the weather.
Yes.
Look, it's the giant statue of Christ on Corcovado.
Hey! Hey!
How to Loot Brazil?
Guys!
While you're singing and dancing, somewhere out there Ronaldo is waiting to be found.
Mom, these are slums. The government just painted them bright colors so the tourists wouldn't be offended.
Here we are!
123 Papaya Street -- this is Ronaldo's orphanage.
Excuse me, we're looking for this little boy.
We're never gonna find him.
You know I'm a vegetarian.
Okay, on this map I marked all the places that Ronaldo liked to go. If we split up, we should be able to search them all.
I bet Maggie would like one.
American corporations should stop playing God with nature.
Mom, my potato is eating a carrot!
Whatcha doing, Mom?
It smells like the art teacher's office.
Dad, it's one a.m. And I'm out of saliva.
I want my old Dad back. The one who was yelling all the time and... you know, I'm not really sure what I want.
Dad, you just said that three minutes ago.
It's time for your surprise, Dad.
As if.
Who's Mark Spitz?
That's true, Bart. Our father knows the best way to embarrass his kids.
But seriously, we've had a lot of fun with our dad over the years.
A lot of people think our Dad's behavior has screwed us up. And it has!
Wait! What about Maggie's memories? Surely the innocent soul of a child will redeem mankind.
It worked, Mom! Maggie's memories have shown them humanity's inner goodness.
As head of the Student Activities Committee, I have an idea.
The speakers are poor because we're letting just anybody do it.
Groundskeeper Willie, Groundskeeper Willie's enemy Seamus...
Well, I think we should try the Springfield Speaker's Bureau.
Ooh! Here's a wonderful speaker! Geoff Jenkins!
He created a cartoon called "Danger Dog." It's popular with kids and adults.
Bart, this is just Dad!
No, it's just Dad.
Can she have a pony? And the last line in the scene?
What up?
Well, it delivers what it promises.
How's your company gonna make money? Do you have a business model?
Two million.
Dad, I'm no fan of Bart's cartoon, but you have a real problem with anger.
Congratulations, Dad. The first step is admitting it.
No. The last step is quitting.
Whaaa?!
Come on, guys. We're gonna be late.
Bart, stick to the script. Don't be a jerk.
You're the jerk.
Mine tastes like dog fur.
Bravo!
I liked all the roles filled by minority actors.
My bad.
Who wants to put on a leotard and get screamed at?
Forget it. I'm going home.
President Kennedy!
Well, I can't argue with the man who wrote "Profiles in Courage."
Thanks. I'll see you in heaven.
I'm more than okay!...
Ich bin ein... gymnast!
Oh, thank you!
You think I'll pass gym this term?
You're reading "Gravity's Rainbow?"
You guys are so cool. I can't believe I never met you before.
Oh, I'd love to!
Campus?
You guys are college students!
Um... Of course. Where do you think I go, baby school?
Um... I'm a teacher's aide in a very special class.
Go, go, go!
Life sucks.
Actually, I'm off campus. I, um, share a house with a couple of girls, a couple of guys.
Well, Bart's kinda-- No!
Mm. Mom's not gonna like that.
Uh, that's what we call the gay guy who lives with us.
Robert Pinsky?! The former Poet Laureate?
Non-dairy?
I'll see you tomorrow!
This place is amazing! Kiosks! Outdoor study groups!
In heaven!
Gotta finish. Gotta finish. Am I using too much glue?
Lisa Simpson, master of the double life.
Where is everybody?
I just wanted to belong! For once, I felt I was with intellectual equals.
I guess we won't be biking through Italy.
Sixteen.
Doogie Howser went to college when he was my age.
But the atmosphere there was so stimulating. It was a bustling marketplace of ideas.
Well...
What are you guys doing?
Can I come with you?
Two million.
I live in a house.
What are you doing?
Poor Bart...
I know just how you feel -- isolated, alone, cut off from everyone--
That's not a sunset. That's a bird on fire!
Oh, I wish I had someplace to call my own. No one wants me around any more.
Really? That's wonderful. But how?
Well I can't do it tomorrow. There's an assembly in his honor.
Ew! Bart!
What was that?
That caterpillar is screaming.
"Screamapillar Care Tips." Wow, look at all this stuff. "Without constant reassurance, it will die. It's sexually attracted to fire..."
Top suspects?
But I like my old name.
Mom, Dad, thank God you're okay.
Dad, no. We're trying to conserve energy.
Dad, it's a blackout.
Thus ends the Rule of Law.
Mom, Dad, someone stole my Malibu Stacy collection!
Are you gonna call the police?
Dad, that's Bart.
Maybe we should look for clues.
Well, you'll be happy to know Malibu Stacey's fine. I really appreciate what you did, Dad.
Wow. Look at Dad. People really respect him.
Oh yeah, that's the pride.
Dad, make him stop!
We could come with you.
Well, duh.
Hm. Does Dad seem a little... dumber than usual?
Yay!
Goldie, you were more than just a goldfish -- you were a member of the family.
Dad, is there something you'd like to tell us about this horde?
That's it! I know exactly what we should do.
"William H. Bonney." "Gunned Down July 14, 1881. Aged twenty-one." So young.
"I dream of a world without guns." Don't we all, William.
He's not my dead boyfriend, he is a dead boy who happens to be my friend. Mr. Bonney, I am going to make your dream come true!
If not for guns, poor William Bonney might have become a doctor, or a Senator...
Sure. The point is, let's stop the madness and ban guns now!
...Twenty eight, twenty nine... There's one missing.
Three cheers for a gun-free Springfield. Hip hip...
Hip hip...
Hip hip...
If only poor William Bonney were here to see his dream come true.
William Bonney?!
BREAK INTO THE BANK AND SNATCH THAT DOUGH...
PLEASE DON'T HURT OUR FAMILY.
...poor William Bonney might have become a doctor, or a Senator...
Dad, what are you doing?
I guess guns really are the answer.
But man's inquisitive nature is what separates us from the animals.
"Dear Dad, Took money for the school book fair."
Do you remember how you got home last night, Dad?
There's no light rail in Springfield.
Hey, I read about this show in Teen Modern Maturity. They film passengers with hidden cameras and catch them at their most uninhibited.
I had no idea Disco Stu was so complex.
Another proud moment for the Simpsons.
That is so sweet.
Have you always resented us, Dad?
Please don't say any more!
...while you're spending the week at...
And you take me places you hate, like museums, plays, and the Olive Garden.
Come... on... Dad...
Dad, you knew this day was coming.
Look, there's Dad!
No, sorry.
Are you sure you don't miss hanging out with your rock star friends, Dad?
Networks love reality shows because they don't have to pay writers or actors.
Bart, I have to study for the Elementary School Achievement Test. And so do you.
It's Wednesday night!
Bart, the test is in two hours. And you haven't slept in a fortnight.
You should know, it's on the test!
What? I've gotta be in the same class as him?
Okay, the sun rises in the east, so the rooster would probably want to lay it on the cool side...
Bart, I'm doing my geography homework.
Stop, I want to learn on my own!
Get out!
What's this weird mark next to my "A"?
M-m-minus?!
You did better than me?!
That's cheating! Bart cheated!
I'll take Ashley!
Ow! You are such an immature-- punch buggy white!
He started it! He did Punch Buggy first!
Big fish! Big fish!
Well, Bart's being his usual jerky self... but Mom, I'm really excited about this new flag design. Oh, and the hotel gives you a free USA Today outside your room... No, I'm sure it's free... Okay, I won't touch it.
Believe me, he doesn't. His act is getting old fast.
He thinks he's really cool, but frankly the other kids are starting to wake up and smell the cooties.
One last sunbeam... and we're done.
To Fraternal Love.
I spearheaded this one.
Bart, I am so mad at you!
The bus!
Wait! Wait!
They left without you too, you idiot.
Because you've already done it once.
Oh, forget it. Hey, how do we get back?
Oh Bart, I think we're lost.
You die now!
Hey!
What do you care?
Thanks. Where'd you get?...
Oh.
Bart, you're my big brother. You should act like it more often. You know, protect me from the bad things in the world.
Thanks, Bart.
I'm sorry I got us lost out here.
I don't think I've done anything else.
Yes.
Bart!
Listen, we're really sorry. We got lost on a field trip from Springfield Elementary!
I'm sorry. They don't publish that any more.
Dad, I'm telling you, Truman wins.
I win, Dad. That means I get to choose today's father-daughter activity!
We're building homes for the homeless.
Yes, but now that it's hip, all the ex-presidents are doing it.
There's Clinton, Bush Senior, and the nice guy who finished last, Jimmy himself.
Dad, what is that?
Dad, you're getting paint on your wedding ring.
This is a Band-Aid wrapped in tin foil.
Bart, this is all your fault.
Whatever Bart is saying is a lie. Mom! What happened? Your endowment's bigger than Harvard's.
Actually, I saw them earlier and I was working on it in the hall.
Mom, doesn't it bother you that they're giving you all this attention just because of those?
Stop objectifying my mom!
Dad, look!
Be careful a-- Uh-oh.
Mom, do something!
Well, you saved Krusty's reputation.
That's how I felt all along.
Actually, it says here we're gonna see hockey.
This is a joke. You'll find me down with the real fans, standing ankle-deep in beer and blood.
It's a hockey game!
Hey Kozlov! Aim for the five hole! He's got an opening the size of Red Square.
But the game's not even over!
Yeah! Go Ice-o-topes!
I think we might have termites.
But where will we live?
Why don't we stay at a youth hostel?
Dad, we have to find a place soon. I really have to go to the bathroom and I'm out of tokens.
What's so good about it?
Bread tastes like clothes.
With all this hard work, I'm too tired to worry about the world. And soon I will marry one of father's wealthy business associates!
Why is the guy from "Laverne and Shirley" living in our house?
I guess the network made our show more exciting by dumping the house in a river.
When you put your T-shirt on backwards?
What about books?
No.
It still beats Disney's California Adventure.
Sideshow Bob!
Bob!
Dad's heading straight for the Museum of Swordfish!
Dad! I figured it out! The murderer is...
Huh?
Precisely.
I can't believe you went to the movies with the teacher. What happened to the Bart Simpson who put the mothballs in the beef stew?
And you only wanted those as bait to catch gummy fish.
Hey Bart, you could nominate Mrs. Krabappel for an actual award, The Teacher of the Year. Then she'll feel appreciated.
Universal Studios?
Ooh, the FutureSphere. It's what people in nineteen sixty-five imagined what life would be like in nineteen eighty-seven.
What happened to you two?
Mom, is that Principal Skinner sleeping in the bed of tomorrow?
So many categories... Gym teacher of the year, Substitute teacher of the year, Most Wheelchair-Accessible School Award?
Edna! Edna! Edna! Edna!
I love happy endings.
Hey, I could really use one of those.
Mom, Dad, my birthday's coming up, and GirlTech Turbo Diaries are in stores now.
Just buy me the friggin' toy.
A laser pointer! Thanks, Bart.
I wonder what this could be?
Could it be some kind of book?
Huh?
Well... this could be fun. Let's watch it.
I don't like McNuggets, I'm a vegetarian!
Huh?
Dad! That information is all wrong! Maggie's a baby, not my best friend! You don't know anything about me!
I don't think so.
Dad, you've had eight years to get to know me. It's too late.
Is that Miles Davis' "Birth of The Cool?"
So you know one thing about me. Big deal.
Well, maybe.
Because this lab is cruelly testing consumer products on animals. Take a look for yourself.
They're making monkeys smoke cigarettes...
And look at the way they've slathered those pigs with cosmetics!
Dad, today was so great. The animal rights protest, a visit to the Museum of Sadness and Oppression...
How'd you think of such perfect things for us to do? Did Mom help you?
What report?
You read the "loves his daughter" by yourself?
I was framed! You believe me, don't you Dad?
Blackening our hair was a great idea, Dad. I look just like a Powerpuff Girl.
Lady Penelope Ariel-Ponyweather.
Dad, we are there.
Aw... Life on the lam is really hard, but at least it's with you, Dad. I feel terrible for putting you through this, after what a wonderful father you've been.
What? Why?
Why did you do that?
How could you?
Let's just get some sleep.
I don't wanna eat from the trash.
They must have come from over there.
Those are the test animals! The detective must have sold them to the circus.
Dad, are you in here?
Oh Dad, you do remember something about me. Perhaps you also remember this laser Bart gave me earlier!
Don't try to pin this on me, sister.
Mom, you didn't get the milk.
Don't worry, Mom. This first time we'll only take a few steps outside.
Dad, it's just a bug.
I'm a magazine rack.
Uh, guys? Mom just left the basement!
The air hockey table makes passing the carrots a breeze.
Stop it, please! I'm trying to eat.
And all those feet going by the window are really creeping me out.
'Bye, Mom!
Bye Mom!
I'm tired of her criticizing my saggy glutes.
Dad, it's so enlightened of you to take us to a WNBA game.
That's Fung Pang-Li, the seven-foot sensation from Szechwan!
Look! That's Lisa Leslie! She showed little girls everywhere that they can grow up to be six foot five!
Dad, this ticket is for tomorrow's WNFL game!
Dad, are you hurt?
Dad, I think this might be the work of Satan.
And there are so many places to cloister myself!
There are perfectly logical explanations for everything that happened. The bonfire sent soot into the air which created rain. And with all the trees cut down, a flood was inevitable.
I'unno. Buddha?
Thank you, Mr. Cronkite.
Ladies and Gentlemen. Tonight, I'd like to harangue you about the plight of--
Mom, why did you wake me up? I dreamt I was at the Kennedy Center Honors.
Hmm, this is an interesting old book.
Molochai desiratum maledictu... nosferatu ascendum corporalis...,molochai desiratum maledictu nosferatu ascendum corporalis,6
Diabolicus abominabolis...
Ooh, Mad libs!
Hey, what's this?
BART SAD.
If I ever needed proof of the existence of God, here it is.
This isn't "BART SAD." It's "BART'S AD."
You're Baby Stink-Breath! You're Baby Stink-Breath! En Francais! Vous Etes L'enfant Stink-Breath!
Good point, Dad. What would Jesus do?
No Dad, it means Bart would be a legal adult and free to move out of the house.
Bart, where are you gonna live?
Do you even know what a loft is?
Oh, I'm gonna miss you.
Ow! Indian burn!
Aw, that's so sweet.
Oh, tomorrow's the day the judge said we can visit Bart.
Wow, this place is great. That couch looks really pricey.
Skewed Tour? The traveling festival of rock 'n' roll, skateboarding and extreme sports?
It's three hundred, Mom.
Shhh.
Woo hoo!
I guess I won't be popular this year, either.
I-M-P...
...U-G-N. Impugn.
Wow. I'd better make the most of this.
Free Tibet!
This is just a kickball with "Mars" written on it.
It was so exciting -- I actually got applause for being smart!
Well, I'm not done yet. Principal Skinner said if I win the state finals, I can go to the Spell-lympics!
Could you use it in a sentence?
A-M-E-L-I-O-R-A-T-E. Ameliorate.
Really? It won't be the same without you, Dad.
Except when pronounced like "a," as in "neighbor" and "weigh."
Well how often is that gonna come up?
Yeah. I've got some work to do.
S-C-A-B-I-E-S.
AC/DC!
R-E-L-A-P-S-E.
Thank you! I've never felt more accepted. Perhaps one day people who spell correctly will replace athletes at the top of our national pantheon.
Uh, I was just K-I-D-D-I-N-G.
I'm a little tired.
Very well. L-I-T-T-L-E -M-I-S-S...
Well, I'm just happy you guys all came up here to Calgary with me.
Dad, this is my moment in the sun. How can you miss it to be with a sandwich?
I guess I'll have to. Then I'll be queen of the world! Of spelling. That's right, queen of the world! Of spelling.
Some of us still enjoy scripted comedy, sir.
Well, I haven't won yet--
What?!
Who, Alex? The boy that everybody loves?
I'm not throwing a spelling bee! I'll die before I misspell.
Free college?
Throw the bee and go to college. Throw the bee and go to college...
No, I don't want to pay for college by throwing a spelling bee.
Mom, I'm having a crisis of conscience. Can you and Dad afford to send me to college?
But you don't play the piano.
Well, I suppose I could just skip college and marry Milhouse...
Could I please hear it in a sentence?
Intransigence. "I..."
Dad, you do care!
With you here I can't fail. Attention, everyone. I was asked to take a dive. But I won't do it. I-N-T-R-A-N-S-I-G-A-N-C-E.
Oh my God, you're right. I spelled it wrong. I tried my best -- and I failed!
My one chance for everyone to like me, and I blew it.
Wha?
You mean you're all still proud of me?
You have made me feel so wonderful. Thank you, Springfield!
That's amazing. Thank you.
Come on, come on, let's get to the beach!
Well, I'm all set. I'm gonna be following the latest designs from Modern Sandcastle magazine.
What a sight! It happens every year like the swallows returning to Capistrano.
Now she's dating Mr. Flanders. That's so romantic!
Miss Sloane, how are you handling the change from La-la land to blah-blah land?
They must have moved the flight paths over our house.
Eww! I got Bart's veal!
Dad, why don't you go to the airport authority and complain?
This is not a Delta hub!
There's the 10:50 from Newark... The 10:52 from Phoenix, connecting from Dallas... The 10:55 from Portland is running late. Again. There it is.
Why don't we go to our Congressman?
I've been saying it for three weeks! But every time I open my mouth...
Yeah, and entertainers are always winning elections. Jesse the Body Ventura, Sonny Bono, Gopher from Love Boat, Mary Bono...
Krusty, I don't usually give advice to Republicans, but it would be nice to be on the winning side for once. You have to start making an honest connection with the voters. Talk about how you could help regular families -- like ours.
No! Connect!
Congressman.
You said you were gonna get rid of the airplanes over our house. And now they're worse than ever.
Dad, this is a kid's menu where you help Yogi Bear get to the Washington Monument.
That's jelly.
We've gotta do something to help him.
Oh, that's easy. First it's introduced, then it goes to committee, then...
Okay, paperclip, do your stuff.
Now we just need a distraction.
What about you and Mom?
Who's naïve?
Me too. The walls are paper-thin.
Hi.
Dad, please. You're the head of a major corporation.
Dad, have you looked at this earnings report?
I got a gold star at school today, for my exposé on toxins in gold-star adhesive.
Dad, this just isn't working.
And what's that?
Hey, you can't blame Principal Skinner for wanting to feature his best student.
Well, I am young, gifted and yellow. My interests include music, science, justice, animals, shapes, feelings...
Hey, that's not gonna happen!
Dad, my life lacks direction!
I gotta pick a career! Gotta pick a career!
I can find a good career at this museum. Or at lease see if they fixed that mislabeled raccoon I complained about.
Hmm, maybe I could be an expert on dinosaurs.
Maybe geology...
Formed by unimaginable heat and pressure deep inside the earth, minerals explode in a vast panoply of... Eh.
That's it! Lisa Simpson, astronomer!
Oh Dad, look at this one!
Dad, that's a moth.
Dad, that's a kaleidoscope.
What happened?
Thanks a lot, surviving Beach Boys.
Okay, Jupiter should be somewhere around here...
Hey.
We've got to do something. I know --maybe we can get people to sign a petition.
I'm collecting signatures to bring back the night sky.
Does it make you feel superior to tear down people's dreams?
Yes.
Hi, I'm trying to reduce light pollution.
Look up at the stars, Springfield! For eons, people have gazed at the skies and seen into their souls.
Oh, stop.
The best part is, next week we'll get to see the Deadly Meteor Shower.
Named after its discoverer, Professor Artemis Deadly, who was ironically killed in the shower of 1853.
Mr. Mayor, you can't flip-flop on this! We'll miss the meteor shower.
Nooo!
Forget it Bart -- it's so bright out, you can't see anything in the sky except the Fox satellite.
Bart, I just realized -- we both want the same thing: darkness. And we can get it if we work together, with my brain and your... your... assistance.
You can't have lights without power, and all the power comes from here.
In his sleep deprived state, he's very suggestible. Okay Dad, you are now playing patty-cake with Maggie.
Now we merely push this switch to "Overload." Yet once we do, we'll be breaking the law. Can good truly come from civil disobedience? Gandhi thought so...
It worked -- I got my sky back! Dad, look!
Look!
Thanks, Mom.
I wonder what Mom came up with for this week's 'Family Wednesday.'
Oh, a jigsaw puzzle...
Concert in Golden Gate Park.
Ages eight to eighty.
Does anyone have any swan heads? I've got nothing but necks.
He's working on a jigsaw puzzle.
He's right, Dad. We're missing that singer's head!
This awful. It's like listening to Schubert's unfinished symphony!
Dad, where are you going?
It's so weird not having Dad here. I can't fall asleep if I haven't read him his bedtime story.
Hello... hold on.
"Nancy Drew let out a low whistle. 'This isn't an old windmill at all. It's a new windmill!'" No Dad, I'm sure she won't be killed.
Dad took us antiquing!
Mom, I know Dad cares about you, but his feelings are really hurt. Why don't you just say you're sorry?
Dad!
Thanks, Julio. I love you as a blonde.
SILVER BELLS, SILVER BELLS...
...IT'S CHRISTMAS TIME IN THE CITY...
...WALKING IN A WINTER WONDERLAND.
HAVA-NICE CHRISTMAS, HAVA-NICE CHRISTMAS, HAVA-NICE CHRISTMAS...NON-CHRISTIAN FRIEND...
JUST HEAR THOSE SLEIGH BELLS JINGLING / RING-TING-TINGLING TOO...
Or we could go to Walter Gropius's Bauhaus Village?
"On this battleground in 1881, fifty-six Indians lost their lives and four brave Americans lost their hats."
This whole ranch is appalling. It's built on a legacy of cruelty to animals and oppression of indigenous people.
You're not listening!
I'm sick of this horse slapping and cow taunting! I'm going to my room!
I'm Lisa Simpson and you're the first person I've met here who cares about our animal equals.
I'm sure she'd be happier without someone sitting on her back all day.
Mom, why are you talking like that?
Oh Luke.
Thanks for making me feel better about this place, Luke.
Oh, it looks like a happy sheep.
Well, I like it here, too. Luke has shown me the gentle side of the old west. He's really sophisticated for a thirteen-year-old.
But when he's twenty-three, I'll be eighteen.
Wanna play a little longer? It's only ten and the moon is awful big.
Look, Cookie! There's a dance tonight!
Clara?! He's got a girlfriend! I feel like such an idiot.
I can't believe Luke has another gal. "My name is Clara... I've known Luke for more than five days..."
Yeah, it sure is...
...But a quicker way to the ranch is that shortcut.
I look forward to it. Ha ha ha ha, I hate you.
I'm sure she's just running late. Or, she's not coming because she doesn't understand how special you are.
Sister?! You mean she's not your girlfriend?
Need-help-now-come-with-me-done-something-terrible!
... So I sent Luke's sister down the wrong trail and... Hey! Where'd all this water come from? There used to be a trail here! And there used to be a beaver dam there.
How can we get across?!
Run across!
I'm sorry. I only sent you the wrong way because I thought you were Luke's girlfriend.
Did Clara... tell you anything else?
Listen, Luke. It's my fault Clara got lost. I didn't know she was your sister, and I wanted you all to myself.
Oh, I had my first crush, and all it did was make me do terrible things and then break my heart.
Janey, more tea?
Today Balthazar will tell us about global warming in the land beyond the rainbow.
Each year we lose seven species of gumdrops...
That's not Mom!
Oh! Someone Is spying on us!
I'm impressed that you drew up blueprints, but these are for a go-kart track.
Actually, Frank Lloyd Wright endured a lot of harsh criticism.
You said his name two seconds ago.
Here's a role model for you, boy: Rin Tin Tin. He was brave on and off the screen. He was the first openly gay dog in Hollywood.
See, now that's the kind of dog you should be.
According to this contract, we have to change his name to "Suds McDuff."
It also says we will receive royalties in perpetuity, a bottomless keg of beer and unlimited use of the Duff corporate jet.
Why does a dog have human girlfriends?
Yeah, don't listen to him Mr. Duff the Seventh. We took this dog in and loved him, and that makes him ours.
Well I'm afraid the law is clear and Dad did renounce all claim to ownership.
I'm not a coward.
Look, to get our dog back, we need a plan.
Mom, we need him for our plan.
Look! There's Duffman!
But he won't, because he's too cowardly.
I know who'll save him, the bravest dog in the world -- Suds McDuff!
Now's your chance, Duffman! You can save my Dad and look like a hero!
It's good to have you back with the Simpsons.
Uh-oh, Dad. I think he peed on the rug.
Dad, you ate the last can of tuna.
Where do you keep the fish 'til it's done?
Dad, mom's been driving everyone everywhere. Why don't you take public transportation?
Good for you, Dad. Could you get me some syrup?
Yay! I wanna amble!
Amble!
Amble!
You know what Mom really loves? Julienne potatoes. And for dessert, peach crumble.
Dad, maybe you could lead Bart's tribe.
Ideally no, but...
I don't think Dad is accurately portraying Native American life.
I see you Braves received our smoke signal.
I'm so proud of what you guys are doing. I even tipped off the local paper.
Who'd want candy filled with laxatives?
Does anyone else want to know why that sign is so funny?
C'mon, we're gonna be late to the blooming of the Sumatran Century Flower.
Because I know every time you say "pick a number from one to ten," it's always seven.
The Venus Flytrap is a carnivorous plant which uses bait to lure unsuspecting prey into its digestive tract...
The flower's starting to open!
Dad, the traffic's moving.
Way to go, Mom. Homemade dim sum, with eight kinds of dipping sauce!
This party's boring. Everything here is for babies.
Well, it looks like Maggie crawled through these bushes, spit up over here, and crashed her tricycle into the wall.
And yet I'm still not satisfied.
Mom, it's "wind."
Dad, do you realize what you've done? You've created a world without Death.
I guess so.
A world without death...
Dad, you've become the new Grim Reaper!
"My dad's job." My dad's job takes him to all parts of the community. He performs a valuable service, but is often misunderstood, like a vulture or the flesh-eating maggot.
I'll tell Professor Frink he's won. Tack för att ni förärat vår stad.
Just for that?
Is there a problem with your father?
Well where is he now? Maybe I can help you two patch up your differences.
Did a shark do that?
Sir, your son has brought you into the twenty-first century. It's a lot like the twentieth, except everybody's afraid and the stock market is much lower.
It almost sounded like he plans to tear organs out of living people!
There you are.
Have you stopped to think about who you're hurting with this rampage?
No -- your son! On the biggest day of his life, when he accepts the Nobel Prize, you're not gonna be there.
But it's not too late. You can still fly to Stockholm.
He's right! It all checks out!
It must be tough to win the Nobel Prize and lose your father on the same day.
What the...?!
Oh come on, don't you get it? Bart stopped time with his magic stopwatch.
Why can't I tinker with the fabric of existence?
What happens if I press this button?
Sorry, sorry, sorry!
Don't go inside -- it's a trap!
Dad, the word's "desert." And those farmers are suffering!
Oh, definitely. If you ask me, she's far less dangerous than Bart.
I object!
Ow!
Doesn't this armoire belong to Mr. Flanders?
Dad, I'm just as sad as you are. What happened to Grandma is an outrage.
She was acquitted. Then they put her back in jail on a technicality.
Well, they're transferring Grandma to a federal prison tomorrow. I say we hit 'em where they live... with a candlelight vigil!
Grandma, you'll always be an inspiration to me.
Hey, as long as we're thinking about her, Grandma's still alive.
And the winner is, seventeen!
What?
Hey... student body president...
I could join past presidents. Like Otto... or Krusty!
Nelson, you're running for President?
I'm doomed.
I can't beat Nelson.
I can't believe Nelson is more popular than me.
No, I'm gonna stick to my platform of incremental policy amelioration: fluoridated water fountains, vegan lunch options...
... and we deserve a French teacher who actually speaks French. J'accuse, Monsieur Kupferberg!
I rest my case.
I'M NOT THAT COOL, I DON'T WEAR JEANS / I'VE POLISHED AN APPLE OR TWO / BUT EVERY GRADE THAT I GRUBBED, I GRUBBED IT FOR YOU... / SO CALL ME BOOKWORM / BUT I'LL NEVER SQUIRM, WHEN THERE'S WORK TO BE DONE / YES I'LL TAKE MY LUNCH AT MY DESK / WHILE YOU'RE ALL OUTSIDE HAVING FUN...
DON'T VOTE FOR ME, KIDS OF SPRINGFIELD / UNLESS YOU WANT AN EFFECTIVE LEADER / I'LL TALK TO TEACHERS / I'LL HANDLE SKINNER / A VOTE FOR LISA / MAKES YOU THE WINNER...
You wanted to see me?
What would you change?
I MAY BE THE NEW GIRL / BUT YOU CAN'T BRAINWASH ME / JUST OSH-KOSH-B'GOSH ME / AND THEN LEAVE ME BE /
TO FIGHT FOR KID-POWER / I MUST BE HEARD NOT SEEN / I HAVE TO LEAD WISELY / NOT JUST PRIMP AND PREEN!
THIS CUTE-ING-UP SUITS ME / THERE'S BEAUTY WITHIN ME / SO LET'S OLSEN-TWIN ME / GIVE THEM SOMEONE TO LOVE
THIS GROWN-UP MAKEOVER / HAS MADE ME A SUPER-TWEEN / FOR THEY ARE MY PEOPLE / AND I AM THEIR QUEEN!
Well, it's a little over the top, but there's no reason I can't look good and take back the playground from the gypsies.
Make it snappy, Milhouse. I've got an important meeting in the teachers' lounge.
Oh, don't be silly.
Well, I have some ideas for ways we can improve the classroom experience.
We need to get teachers more involved! Have them meet with struggling kids in the morning before school.
Or, we could hand out teachers' home phone numbers -- ­so kids can call them whenever they have questions.
Look, in the Swedish public schools, the students grade the teachers on their performance--
"Photo op helping Kindergartners take off snow boots..." "Move the brushfire hazard needle..." Um, shouldn't I stay here and work on school policy?
Well, I am proud of my light.
You mean I can come to the school after hours, weekends, even during the summer?
Excuse me? I was wondering if I should read what I just signed.
Okay.
Key release boilerplate? I find that very hard to believe.
Boy, this key opens everything.
And then, as school president, I don't have to take the hearing test.
Well, I think I can say with all humility, I am gonna be the best school president ever.
They've taken everything!
I would have gone with you.
Well, I don't feel like it now.
WHAT HAVE I DONE?
SKINNER BETRAYED ME!
They made me pretty and popular just so they could exploit me and ruin my good name.
You tricked me into betraying my fellow students!
I see. Principal Skinner, may I make an announcement to the school?
I hereby resign as your president. And for my last act, I call a general student strike, effective immediately!
Principal Skinner, I will not call off this strike until you bring back music and art.
Meh.
Mom, I was elected to make this a better school.
They've taken away our crepe paper.
Chief Wiggum, we're just like you policemen. Don't you ever feel like the mayor doesn't care about you?
If we stand together, we are strong!
But... but I...
DON'T CRY FOR ME KIDS OF SPRINGFIELD / YOU CAN STILL REACH ME THROUGH E-MAIL / AT SMART GIRL SIX THREE / UNDERSCORE BACK SLASH / AT YAHOO DOT COM / AT YAHOO DOT COM...
Oh, this place is paradise.
But this is my dream.
Okay, let me take figure skating.
Well, what can I be?
Okay.
No, it doesn't.
Bart, why don't you spend the money on something for Mom? She does so much for us.
Bart, that exhibit over there is biased, insensitive and anti-feminist.
Bart, your museum took in over three thousand dollars!
Bart, I don't care what Mom said. I think you should use this money to take her on a nice vacation.
How come?
Grampa, that's so romantic! We gotta go to England!
Prime Minister Tony Blair!?
Maybe you could give us a personal tour of your country.
Look, it's J.K. Rowling, author of the Harry Potter books. You've turned a generation of kids onto reading.
Can you tell me what happens at the end of the series?
Yes.
Sir Ian McKellen! You're my favorite Shakespearean actor!
Mom, you said Macbeth!
Dad, no! You turned into a roundabout!
Dad, you rear-ended the Queen of England!
Why did you let him be his own barrister?
We found a secret tunnel out of the tower. It was used by Sir Walter Raleigh!
Push the gray brick in the back of the fireplace.
Put out the fire first.
Oh, my God! We've made a terrible mistake. This tunnel comes out in the worst possible place.
Yes, Bart. An elephant's butt.
I picked Mom a bouquet of Erigeron
elatiors.
Daisies.
Flowers.
This is even worse than you think -- look!
Grampa! You have a job?
Wow, look at all this stuff.
Aunts Patty and Selma, can you help us pick out a Mother's Day gift?
Endorsed by the American Carny Association.
What is that?!
I don't care if they think you're a coward, Dad. You did the right thing, hiding and crying.
You can strangle Bart, but you can't strangle your humiliation.
Dad, you can't get revenge on an animal. That's the whole point of Moby Dick.
And Bart's missing too!
Zoot suit... astronaut outfit... Southern belle... Renaissance dandy... Country-western octopus...
It's gone!
I just wanted to see what it was like. Howdy, y'all. If you don't like mah song, I'll spray ya with ink!
He made it! He's finally protected from man.
I don't know, but whoever's in there is taking their sweet old time.
Hey! Wait a minute, if we're all out here, who's in there?
I tried the coat hanger again. I don't understand why we only try ideas once.
Aww.
Wait, Santa's Little Helper had puppies before.
And then we got him neutered.
He's at the peak of cuteness.
Krusty, what's wrong?
Bart, the Bar Mitzvah is the most important event in a Jewish boy's life. It's when he reads from the Torah and becomes a man.
Krusty, your dad's a rabbi -- how could you not have had a Bar Mitzvah?
Krusty, you can still have your Bar Mitzvah as an adult.
There's nothing in the Talmud that forbids it.
I have a Jewish imaginary friend. Her name is Rachel Cohen and she just got into Brandeis.
Dad, you have to say something. Something meaningful!
Well, Dad, what do you want to talk about tonight?
It's great, Dad. You have tremendous power. And now it's time to put it to use.
No, Dad. I mean you should use your time on the air to say things that really mean something. Change the world for the better!
This is offensive to Christians and prunes.
I think that's "drop."
Cool, a toy store!
Dad, I don't like the looks of this neighborhood.
No, Dad. This time you were just plain selfish.
Dad? Are you okay?
It's Saturday, December sixth.
Dad, what you saw was "A Christmas Carol." It was written by Charles Dickens a hundred and sixty years ago.
Dad, you don't have to out-do Mr. Flanders. Just remember the spirit of the season.
Actually, most people now feel Christmas has gotten too materialistic. In fact, as a Buddhist, I believe people would be a lot happier without presents.
People would be a lot happier without presents.
Not any more.
Obviously, yes.
Bart! On't-day ell-tay om-may uffi-ray as-hay e-say e-days.
E'll-shay uy-bay em-thay, upid-stay.
Ap-cray.
Her eyes aren't focused.
Ms. Naegle, even though I disagree with your principles, I certainly admire your success.
Bart, we're gonna lose. We have to do something.
Okay, but how?
Oh my God! I just had my most brilliant idea ever!
You don't even know what the idea is.
Bart, why are we fighting?
There's the enemy. Give 'em all you got.
For all their disposable income, for all their leisure time, they had no immunity against God's lowliest creatures: children.
Snowball!
Mom, I'm not sure I'm ready for a new cat.
That book doesn't know how I feel.
All right, I'll look.
Too fluffy, too Siamese, too needy, too stuck-up, infected eye, clearly a skunk. Me-ow!
Welcome to the family, Snowball III!
Well, I think it's only fair I get to name him. You got to name me.
Coltrane, would you like to hear some music written by your namesake?
Coltrane?
Coltrane, you were with us only briefly, but we'll always have the ride home from the shelter. And uh... I guess that's it. Amen.
Mom, I'm not sure God responds to threats and intimidation.
Dad, what are all those cuts?
I guess I'm not meant to own a cat. I'm much happier petting this leaf.
Wait, you don't want me to have this cat!
Look, you don't want to get involved with a girl like me. My cats have a nasty habit of waking up dead. Now go, cough me out of your life like a bad fur ball.
You're not hurt! You're a good-luck kitty!
I'm keeping you! You're Snowball Five, but to save money on a new dish, we'll just call you Snowball Two and pretend this whole thing never happened.
I guess you're right, Principal Tamzarian.
Mom, can we go into this bookstore? Please, please, please, please, please, please, please?
I'm gonna go up to the fourth floor where the books are.
Don't you need training for that?
Not if I pump your heart full of morphine first!
Why don't you just admit you don't know where the hospital is?
We're not paramedics!
Hm...
I'm proud of you, Mom. But just one thing: isn't your book a little hard on Dad?
"Captain Mordecai stared at the shop window full of powdered blowholes. 'Mmm, blowholes,' he drooled." Sounds like Dad to me.
Maybe you should let Dad read your book before you submit it to publishers.
If Dad ever reads that book, he's gonna be so humiliated.
What if they make it into a movie?
What if they parody it on Mad TV?
Dad's gonna catch Flanders, just like the end of Mom's book.
Didn't you read Mom's book?
Fine, I'll tell you how it ends. The brutish Captain Mordecai has cornered his rival, Cyrus...
I have to research a paper. Where did all the books go?
"Everybody Poops, the Video?" "Yu-gi-oh Price Guides?" There are hardly any books at all!
I can't.
Why can't your heir be female? Or-or why can't we elect our leaders?
Leaving!
Mom, I can't find anything on Sacagawea. Just a couple books on Ron Santo.
Okay.
Oh, I can't stand it.
Mom, that sounds a lot like the movie "Amadeus," which was historically inaccurate. Mozart worked hard on his music... Salieri was a respected composer...
Well, at least they're not fighting.
Oh Bart, I'm sure it's hard to lose your best friend.
Who is it? Is it Ralph?
Fine. You can confirm the accuracy of the hose.
Ha, ha, ha, you wet your pants.
Bart, you're in my family.
We can't jump this ditch.
That's not true, Bart. Mom and Dad value us equally, and... oh, you're right. 'Kay, go ahead.
But I know so much about it.
Geronimo!
Look, we can go inside!
Ooh, we're like Howard Carter discovering the Temple of Tutankhamen.
Pictographs! Bart, this is a Native American burial mound.
Hey, we shouldn't tell anyone we were here. This place should be our special secret!
Bart, there's spiders in your hair.
"The Mound Builders worshiped turtles, as well as badgers, snakes, and other animals."
Hi, Janey... Branford Marsalis' car broke down outside your house? And he's just jamming 'til Wynton shows up? Oh...
Um... some other time, maybe. Today I'm just hanging out at home.
You did not.
Who?
Bart! I cracked the code of the pictograph. It says there's a curse on the mound. Of course I don't believe in...
Milhouse? I thought your mom took you away forever.
You told him our secret?!
Oh. I see how it is.
Well, it's nice you have your best friend back.
Mmm-hmm... I think I'll go to bed now.
Nothing.
Look, just because Milhouse is gone doesn't mean you have to pretend to be my friend.
Bart will make your bed for a week.
What? Really?
But it's not my turn.
Bart will defend you when other kids call you a nerd. No one calls me a nerd.
Bart will give back the Malibu Stacy head you thought was lost.
Oh Bart, that's really sweet.
I think I'm gonna use this card right now.
What's going on?
Yay!
It used to be the "Leaning Tower of Pizza."
They just painted the tower brown.
Maggie, you're as smart as any one of those kids. C'mon.
Okay, for Malibu Stacy's beach party we've got pita, humus, tempeh, tofu... what other fun foods do we need?
Ice?
Did you do that?
Okay, what's a good side dish?
Rice? Why not caviar?
Oh my God, you're not just smart... you're brilliant! Mom!
Just because Maggie can't talk doesn't mean she's dumb -- Einstein didn't speak 'til he was three.
Go on, Maggie, you can do it.
But, but my IQ is only 159! Maggie's more intelligent than me?
Yes, thank you.
Really?
No Mom, it's just that I used to be "the smart one" -- now I don't know who I am.
I already have one of those.
All right, if I'm second rate as the smart kid, I'll find a new raison d'être.
Right, right.
Time to show them the new me. No one's happier and more well-adjusted than a standup comedian.
How 'bout these entrées? Stuffed cabbage? Can you believe they found a way to make cabbage worse?
All right, so what else is goin' on? Let's see... Hey! Why do they call them field trips? We never go to a field!
Uh, well I...
Okay, okay, don't get discouraged. Every me they reject gets me closer to the me they'll like.
It's called Goth, eternally clueless one. My new name is Ravencrow Never-smiles.
Okay. But first, you must apprentice by kissing the goddess Ironica, uh... who lives in this rock.
Do it for an hour, hour and a half.
Oh, none of these feel right. Oh wait, did I try "soccer player?"
I'm a mess. I can't believe I'm jealous of a baby.
You're making fun of him for something you made him do.
People who accuse others of being gay are often covering up their own latent homosexuality.
Fine, I'll help you with your stupid flash cards.
Aren't you smart. Let's try another one... A little harder this time.
No. That's wrong.
That's right! This spells "dog."
I used to be the smart one.
Maggie, you're such a quick learner -- why don't you learn how to fly!
Goodbye, Maggie. I'm smart enough to know you're better off without me.
Two cents...
Well, I'm sure a lot of great people have started with less.
Oh, I'm tired, I'm hungry, red plastic sandals are not great running-away shoes...
Air conditioning... water fountains... dioramas... and I'll never run into my family here! It's the perfect place to start a new life.
Lousy Maggie... thinks she's so great... thinks she knows...
I miss them all so much.
C'mon, c'mon...
Mom, Dad! I'm so sorry I got you into this!
Maggie, I'm sorry I was jealous of your special gift. From now on I'm gonna nurture and cherish--
Maggie, push the red button!
You can do it. Red!
I'm sorry I ran off. Being second to Maggie's not so bad. But why didn't Maggie press the right button 'til I told her to?
Go on, Maggie, you can do it.
I don't remember doing that. I would never cheat!
So Maggie's not a genius?
I don't care what they say, Maggie. To me you're brilliant.
Not for babies.
It's a movie version of a cartoon family you can see for free on TV.
Because Mr. Flanders volunteered to take the senior citizens out for ice cream.
Mr. Leonard, how'd you get in a movie?
Dad, I don't like this movie. Can we go home?
It was only a movie, filmed in Vancouver, with Donald Sutherland as the priest who stopped believing...
Both of us heard mysterious noises coming from this very spot.
Bart and I will explore the attic until we find their source.
Must be the pipes. What do you think, Bart?
Okay. I'll just stay calm and approach this scientifically.
Oh God, oh God. Oh nooo. If I don't make it out alive, I love you, Mom and Dad. Maggie, you can have my books. And Bart, I'll see you in Hell, you booger-eating wuss. That's right, we all know!
Bones!
Copyright Pink Pony Productions. Visit us on the web at Lisathemovie.com.
Mom! Dad! There's a ghost in the house!
And it would be nice to have someone here I can beat up.
Yay!
Thanks for reading me "The Corrections." It makes me feel better about my own family.
He tried once, but he got confused and thought the book was real. He's still looking for that chocolate factory. It consumes him.
Look Maggie, it's a pop up! "Daddy's made a shiv. Can you help him ice Johnny Shakes, the jailhouse stoolie?"
Oh Dad, I missed you so much.
I have to admit, I'll miss having him around.
Where's your costume?
Don't worry, they're just getting the plot out of the way so it won't slow down the .
That character is just a tired stereotype.
I can't believe the "Gathering Shadow" was Senate redistricting!
I'll write the letter.
"Dear Cosmic Wars fan, I'm glad you loved my film?! Here's a photo of your favorite new character, Jim-Jam Bonks. May the power be on your side, Randall Curtis." He ignored our criticisms!
Dad, that's our address.
No, he lives at the "Cosmic Wars Ranch" in Northern California.
Can we go? Can we go? Please! Please! Please! Please! Please!
C'mon Bart, here's our chance.
We come from the real world.
Better technology doesn't mean better storytelling.
Your early movies are timeless classics. Please, Mr. Curtis. Go back to what made your first films so great.
"Fox Broadcasting, 10201 West Pico, Building 203..."
Wow... Mom and Dad sure are having fun.
Uh-oh.
Did you guys get home at two last night?
And why is Krusty on the couch?
Dad, I still have a couple-a questions about this. Mom never drives drunk, and the crash was in your car. Also, the driver's seat was adjusted for your stomach...
But I'm eight years old!
You're a great mom. You were always there for Bart with love and support. His acting out was probably caused by negative reinforcement.
Why would Bart escape if he's gonna be released in two weeks?
And thanks for showing my brother that girls can be cool.
Taco, please.
Grampa, how do you sleep at night?
I think Skinner might make a run for it -- he's eyeing the exits and doing calf stretches.
He's probably in costume -- he could be any of these people!
They're going into Multi-Purpose Room B!
Good for you, Mrs. K!
At least I was planned.
Baaaaaart!
Why are we even going? Last year Uncle Tyrone was bitter and depressed.
No it doesn't! This movie is drivel! She's wooden and unpleasant, and no matter what he does, he's still Ryan O'Neal.
It's called Wicca, and it's empowering!
That's Kaballah, jerk!
That's where Mom and Dad are!
I'm an orphan!
Quiet, Grampa. Hello... Mom?!?!
Where are you?! Are you okay?
At the Dayton Arms hotel?
So... how's the weather in Dayton?
Hey, do I hear a back rub?
Something's fishy. They're not in Dayton, they're somewhere fun.
Let's go find Mom and Dad!
Those horn-dogs -- they ditched us again! You know what this means?
No. We're gonna follow them across this great land, making sure they don't have one moment of fun.
I'm going into the Gold Medallion Club... with silver-level membership!
Busted!
You probably do this all the time! This whole family is built on a tissue of lies and romance!
How 'bout the floor is made of lava?
Yeah, I can't sleep. Maybe we should give Mom and Dad a break. You know, go spend the day in an amusement park so we're out of their hair.
I guess the hunt was more fun than the catch.
I know. My new thing is to ignore you.
When you grow up I'll be outside.
No! You don't understand. We came here to give you some privacy, and--
Let me finish my sentence!
Well, it looks like everything worked out just fine for everybody.
These giant vegetables are amazing.
My theme is "If Music Be The Food of Love." The setting features tuning forks, champagne flutes and of course, chopsticks. And for dessert, Ella Fitz Jell-O.
What's wrong with it?
Did I do anything right?
Thank you mysterious stranger... where did he go?
I'm drawing a picture of my newest hero, the Pie Man.
"Richie Rich Incorporates In Delaware," "Easy to Believe Tales," "Supergirl vs. the Glass Ceiling," "The Green Listener"...
No, I think the expression is "peg."
Dad?
Dad, please. It's obvious you're Pie Man. We've been getting his mail for weeks.
Dad, this is the basement. Here's the iced tea I left down here this afternoon.
You're not mild-mannered. You're often liquored-up and rude.
I want you to stop this, Dad. Before you get killed.
Well, I know one thing you could do...
As Springfield's youngest Buddhist, I am deeply honored to introduce the Dalai Lama.
And now please welcome the Elvis of Enlightenment... the lean, serene, chanting machine: the Dalai Lama!
No, Pie Man! Don't do it!
Dad, I think you created a hero that even you couldn't live up to.
Now up, the case of Simpson v. Simpson.
How romantic. You and Dad were drawn to each other as kids and you didn't even realize it.
Granted.
Mom, why are you so mad?
The perfect kiss!
That's horrible. How could you, Dad?
I can't believe you stood Mom up.
That's not what dogs do.
Uh, I think we'll go to bed now.
Great!
Make mine calico!
This whole morning has been wonderful. Too wonderful.
Oh, please let it be Volvo.
This is ridiculous. Only babies and ex-junkies are afraid of needles. Stick me, Chuckles!
Can I have a lollipop?
Dad, he's deaf.
We've become pariahs! In the last two hours I've gotten one thousand hate spams.
We get it, Mom.
I'm as patriotic as the next person, but changing the traffic lights to red, white and blue just seems dangerous.
I'd like to say something about the current climate of repression and fear.
"Congress shall make no law... abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press."
That's from the first Amendment to the Constitution. Thank you.
It's not a jail, it's a "reeducation center."
Well, we're not the only ones to be unjustly imprisoned. Check out all the left-wing celebrities.
I don't know whether it's the lack of sleep, the sodium pentathol, or that it's the only cartoon I've seen in two months. But this is what I believe in now.
O BEAUTIFUL / FOR SPACIOUS SKIES / FOR AMBER WAVES OF GRAIN...
MY CARD HERE SAYS "ACLU" / NOW LOOK WHAT I'M GOING TO DO...
Yes.
Swim toward San Francisco!
Maman, please pass ze baguette.
I miss America, too. The United States has its grandeur and its follies, but mostly it's the place where all our stuff is.
Gee, I never noticed that before.
He's got a tree in his eye!
Thank you. Geezer Rock -- an appreciation in verse.
"Postcard image, thing to see--"
Gotta go, sweetie!
But I didn't read my poem!
My poem has become an elegy. An elegy no one will ever hear.
Publish it myself? Why not? I could put out a whole newspaper dedicated to the rock. I'd be a publisher, just like Katherine Graham!
Thanks for helping me deliver the first edition of The Red Dress Press, Dad.
"Elegy for Geezer Rock:" / "Postcard image, thing to see, / To think of Springfield is to think of thee. / What thoughts be-pass a'hind thy mien? / Why sky art blue, why trees art green? And what, pray tell, did thine eyes see? / Perchance, old friend, they gazed at me. / Brought low by nature's oafish hand, / Thou crush-ed our reviewing stand / And twixt thy stones glimpsed I the truth: / All things must pass -- thy face, my youth."
Tomorrow's? I hadn't thought about publishing more.
All right, Nelson. What kind of journalism skills do you have?
Perfect. You're our TV critic. Ralph, what about you?
Hmm, how about feature columnist?
It's not fair!
Nice work, Bart! But give him a runny nose. I want the readers to gag on their morning cup of Joe.
Don't call me Chief.
Chief is fine.
Burns owns everything! I've gotta speak out before it's too late!
"Dear readers: you hold in your hands the last paper not controlled by the Burns media empire. We are not afraid to say Montgomery Burns is a monopolistic, self-aggrandizing hmmm... stinky pants."
I'm sorry Mr. Burns, but my paper's not for sale.
She's very pretty, but the answer is still no.
They're so beautiful. And their breath smells like peppermint! No! No! I won't take your blood ponies! Go on, sweetie. Go on. Shoo!
I can't. My Mom's not picking me up for an hour.
I think it distracts people from more important social issues.
You can't leave now! We're the only thing stopping Mr. Burns!
Everyone chickened out. Except Ralph. He got poached by the Chicago Tribune.
I guess we're down to just me.
Bart, you're staying!
Oh, it's beautiful.
What the...?
Dad! Mr. Burns cut our power -- now I can't print my paper!
Stupid Burns, cuts off my power, lowers my credit rating...
You're not mad about Principal Skinrash?
What's that?
Dad, how could you say these things?
Well, at least there's nothing else Burns can do to me.
Nooo!
The Homer Times?
Oh, Dad...
This is so sweet, but I've learned one little paper can't make a difference in this world.
The Barney Bugle?
You have a newspaper too?
I couldn't be prouder.
Mr. Flanders, why are you moving?
Well, you can't fight fate, but if you must shoot our father, please remember our family motto: "Not in the face."
Hmmm.
Science Officer!
Dad, you should listen to him. He's a man of science and you can barely read!
To get Maggie in time, we'll have to catch a ride on a nerve impulse -- the body's information super-highway!
Oh, my God! This is the worst Halloween horror we've ever faced.
Dad, would you like some of my Snicker-bar cheesecake?
What do you think, Thomas Pynchon?
If you win, Ovenfresh Industries will make you the new face of Auntie Ovenfresh.
Mom, a letter from Ovenfresh Industries!
Thank you for applying to the Ovenfresh Bakeoff. Every year many wonderful cooks fail to qualify.
"...but screw them, you're in! Congratulations!"
Come on Mom! You still have twenty minutes left -- you can fix it!
Emanations!
You feed us on twelve dollars a week?
Hurry, Mom!
I can't believe my Mom would cheat.
Oh, she'll win the contest, but she'll lose her soul.
And lose her soul.
Yes.
Congratulations, Mom. You seem to have a prescription for success.
Don't forget your secret ingredient...
Cheating!
Mom, if I don't have you to look up to, I don't have anyone.
I don't want Mickey Mantle, I want my Mom.
I guess Dad has to be my hero now.
Hey look! The new Ovenfresh flour bag!
Check it out, girls. Sixty-eight squares of ankle-busting fury!
That's right, a double-dogleg, hamstring-knotting Hop-Way to Hell. What insane kangaroo dreamed this fevered nightmare? Behold!
Ladies, grab your pebbles!
What?
Shut up! I do not!
Dad, the kids at school said my butt's big.
Maybe a different outfit would make me look thinner.
This store makes me feel even worse about myself.
I know! It's such an unrealistic standard for young... Huh?
Hey, I don't look so bad.
Noooooo!
What?! I'm not fat enough already? How could you say that to me?
No thanks. I'm gonna stay in the library and do a little reading.
Sixty-four, sixty-five, sixty-six...
I can't hear you.
That doesn't make any sense!
I know this obsession with thinness is unhealthy and anti-feminist... but that's what a fat girl would say!
Now, I can't have toothpaste tonight.
This is the perfect test -- if I can have one dab of frosting and then stop, I'll know I've conquered food at last.
That was too easy.
Okay, if I stop here, I still have some dignity.
Yeah, a little. Those mean girls just get to me.
Thank you, Nelson.
I really appreciate you teaching those mean girls a lesson.
I'd like that.
Nothing. Like many women, I still have an unhealthy obsession with my weight.
I guess. But there's a long way to go.
I'm afraid this is a very open-ended problem.
That was you.
It's a media circus!
A media circus.
ABC, CBS... uh-oh, the Christian Science Monitor has a flat tire!
The Juice is still on the loose.
Technically he was born in Shelbyville.
You're successful too, Mom. You made a chore wheel that's both fair and wise.
Chloe, I really admire how you got out of Springfield and became such a success.
Harper's Magazine! I have a picture of Lewis Lapham on my binder.
Chloe, you've lived so many fascinating places.
Chloe is amazing -- even her serving bowl smells glamorous.
Did you know back in high school that she'd be such a star?
Miasmas!
Oh, that Moe. But good for you, Mom! Why didn't you follow Chloe into journalism?
Oh, Mom, don't feel bad. Everybody appreciates your... uh-oh, I'm late for my dinner... with Chloe!
There's "Dan Rather" and "Tom Brokaw", hanging out with Kent Brockman!
That was such an exciting night. Morley Safer has the biggest head I've ever seen.
It's gonna be a let-down going to school tomorrow. We have to make a pilgrim out of felt.
Oh! That'd be wonderful! Oh I'd -- I'd have to ask my Mom.
Hmmm. So... is it okay if I go to the women's conference with Chloe?
I've never disobeyed Mom before. Is this a step I'm really willing to take? I don't know. The more I think about it, the...
Bart! Thanks for helping me make up my mind.
I didn't cushion your...
Hello, U. N. Women's Conference!
Wha--?!
We're trapped!
I'm not a journalist.
I'm sure you did. But still, don't you ever wonder what might have happened if things had gone differently?
Help... Help... So much sulfur dioxide!
Be careful, Mom! There's hot lava under the ground!
You're so smart, Chloe!
Mom, that was incredible!
Mom, your hair.
Praying to Buddha, Jesus, Sponge Bob. There's no time to be picky.
MISS LUCY HAD A STEAMBOAT / THE STEAMBOAT HAD A BELL...
MISS LUCY WENT TO HEAVEN AND THE STEAMBOAT WENT TO...
... HELL-O OPERATOR...
GET ME NUMBER NINE / AND IF YOU DISCONNECT ME / I'LL CHOP OFF YOUR BE...
...HIND THE 'FRIDGERATOR...
THERE WAS A PIECE OF GLASS / MISS LUCY SAT UPON IT / AND IT CUT HER BIG FAT...
...ASK ME NO MORE QUESTIONS / I'LL TELL YOU NO MORE--
Ow!
Spitballs!
Oh!
No!
You're in big trouble, mister. I'm bleeding!
Eww, gross! I bet you can't twist it.
Bart, if you don't get up now, good luck getting a pancake. Dad's pulled his chair right up to the stove.
If you're feeling depressed, do what I do and write something. A novel, a play...
Why don't you go legit and sell your shirts in stores?
I bet you could find a distributor at the Springfield Novelty Expo.
Great! Will you play Malibu Stacy with me?
Done and done. I'm going to the organic market!
Wheeee!
It's my entry for the all-school science fair.
It shows the history of nuclear physics, from Marie Curie's laboratory to a scale model of the first nuclear reactor.
A robot?! Last year the winner was a jar of owl pellets. I don't have a chance now.
Well, we're supposed to do this without parental help.
Dad?...
Dad, what did you do?
Yes...
Dad, that could explode!
Mom! Dad built a device that would be deadly in the wrong hands! And he's holding it!
It doesn't seem fair to the regular visitors.
Mr. Burns acting nice? That's odd. He must be up to something.
How many men do you know?
"The Plywood Pelican was larger than a football field. It weighs more than the state of New Hampshire. It was only flown once, by its creator, Mr. C. Montgomery Burns."
This must be the "nasty surprise" he mentioned in the invitation.
That show's gone off the air.
Drugs aren't so expensive in other countries.
What countries are those?
No.
A-lo-ha!
We just wanted to thank you. Because of the Xanax, I'm not over-anxious about being a Simpson anymore. I am a little anxious about being on Xanax, but the Zoloft covers that nicely.
Way to build equity!
You ate fruit! You ate fruit!
DARTS AND MEATPIES, AND LAGER IN PINT GLASSES
WHAT A CLASSY WAY TO GET DRUNK OFF YOUR ASSES
And they seem awfully chummy.
I'm not inferring anything. You infer. I imply.
Well, if Hollywood movies have taught us anything, it's that troubled relationships can be completely patched up by a mad dash to the airport.
Are you sure Mom and Dad want us to enter a European balloon race?
I used to love Springfield Park, but it's gotten so run down.
Looks like all you're teaching is obnoxiousness and poor sportsmanship.
He's just being true to the Bible, which is pretty violent.
Wait a second - I've read that you speak excellent English.
Dig in, everybody!
Really? Didn't you just sign a ninety million dollar contract?
Hmm... the TV changes channels every time the dog barks.
I think he swallowed the remote.
Just what we need. Another lame suburban kid who loves rap.
Rappers stopped saying "illin'" twelve years ago.
They stopped saying "keepin' it real" three years ago.
A shirt from that rap concert... Bart must've gone to the show. But that means...
Dad!? Why did you do that?
Why did you burn up your shirt?
So you see Principal Skinner, that's why I had to come to you.
It doesn't matter. The point is, only with your help can I expose Bart's lies.
Mr. Alcatraaaz, my name is Lisa Simpson, and this is Principal Skinner.
This proves Bart lied about being kidnapped!
Wait just a minute.
The way I was raised, by Mom, I learned the truth can't be swept under the rug.
Dad, I don't understand. After all the corruption and deceit we've witnessed, how can everyone just party?
I hope this bad publicity doesn't affect tourism.
I have a real suggestion.
Why don't we legalize same-sex marriage? We can attract a growing segment of the marriage market, and strike a blow for civil rights.
Well, what about people of the opposite sex who want to get married?
I mean a man and a woman.
Why are we dressed as Sunday Best Simpsons for dinner with Aunt Patty?
I thought you said Aunt Patty was just waiting for the right man.
Aunt Patty, where did you two meet? Alternative book store? Ethiopian restaurant?
Well, that's the end of Dad's wedding business.
Sure am!
You make those same stupid jokes every field trip!
What happened to the glacier? It's nearly melted. This must be due to global warming!
No it isn't -- it's a lump of slush! Look at it!
Ah, pre-modern man. If these wise warriors could speak, what would they tell us?
Listen, people!
How can you stand there eating snacks and being children, when the world's glaciers are vanishing?
We have to do something about it!
Glaciers are nature's alarm clock...and it's time for us to wake up. Can there be any doubt that the culprit is greenhouse gas produced by man?
People, please! I'm talking about toxic vapors.
Baaart!
Help! I'm sinking in the lake!
Whatever!
Bart, you are the meanest, nastiest little boy that ever lived.
You don't even care how upset I am! But this time you have gone too far.
You'll see. Oh, you will see.
Yes. The clerk also gave me this bench warrant for Dad's arrest.
Hey, this really works.
I like eating here with you, Dad. Especially without "Don't have a cow, man."
Oops, need more soda.
Mom, I don't mean to be mean. But every time I think about forgiving him, I remember all the bad things he's done to me.
Name three.
Yes, but he thought that was a bad thing.
He did try to cheer me up when my hamster died.
Okay, that's two... ...and that's it. If I think of another one, I'll let him back in.
Stupid, selfish Bart. Like he's ever gonna do another nice thing for me...
He's building a me! Well, I mean, it's a little American-primitive... but who am I to dismiss outsider art? It shows he misses me... and this is the third thing!
Bart, don't worry.
I'm relinquishing the poke-pole.
I'm not sharpening it!
No, I'm giving it up!
I've realized how much I missed you -- and I can see from this magnificent Lisa statue that you felt the same way.
Bart, you were gonna burn the third nice thing you've ever done for me?
Aww, Bart, I missed your lies... And I was kind of a pill. I guess.
Gimme that torch.
What about your pet iguana, Jub-Jub?
Don't give up, Aunt Selma. China has thousands of baby girls who need adoption.
The Great Wall of China was begun nearly two thousand years ago in order to repel barbarian invaders.
I don't know about that -- I'm considered pretty smart.
How dare you make light of that brutal--
Listen, I've got a plan to get Ling back. But we must be discreet. You never know where there might be a spy.
Uh, let's talk about this outside.
Yeah, Dad. If you don't look perfect, you'll never be able to sneak in and steal Ling back.
You look just like a Buddha statue. Now, all you need is an expression of utter serenity.
If we can just get to the Delta Airlines Gold Medallion Lounge, they can't get in without spending frequent flyer miles.
Well, I think -- in these days of petro-terrorists and ozone depletion -- a Sunday drive reeks of bio-hubris.
Out of the way! I learned CPR while waiting for other kids to finish their math tests.
Compress his chest!
Mom, why are you so worried about money?
It's so embarrassing Mom is making us wear clothes from Goodwill.
Neat! When I sleep at Dad's, I call this bed.
That's a bread compartment.
Oh boy!
Yay!
No, I don't see Dad doing all that paperwork.
Oh boy. Let's get out of here before Dad does a bad impression of Mom.
Hey, I know this is a crazy idea, but hear me out. What if we...
Wow, I was gonna say "call Reverend Lovejoy," but I guess this could work.
How do you know that's their blimp?
Let's see, the RV dealership is across the freeway on the corner of... hey, this is a Flintstones Fun Map.
Look, Dad wrote something: "Dino -- short for dinosaur? Remember to ask Jeeves."
Dad, Snowball's not fat. She's just got winter fur.
Yeah, kiss and make up!
We're going downhill... and I can't reach the brakes!
Look!
Runaway Truck Lane! We're saved!
Ah, rats.
Oh! The famous Shelbyville Theater District! Can we see a play?
They're saying Springfielders are stupid hicks.
For your information, Springfielders can be intelligent and articulate. I happen to know because we're from Springfield.
Okay, she's fat.
Can't breathe... someone dangle some string!
We're not overfeeding her. We've been giving her this low-fat cat food!
I'll bet she's sneaking food from someplace else! Let's follow her!
One thing at a time, Bart.
This is worse than when we thought Mom was having an affair. It turned out she was just going to the library to cry.
Hey, that's the smell of her real family! The Simpsons! And for your information, our walls have a bunch of dead raccoons in them. But we are saving up the money to find them!
Snowball does tricks?
Well, I don't care what you say, she still loves us more. Don't you, Snowball?
You toyed with my heart like it was a toy heart.
What is it that they have that keeps Snowball coming back to their house?
What is Bart still doing in there?
Bart, why were you in there so long?
Oh yeah? Well, there's your girlfriend.
No, you do. You're gay for Moleman!
Where are we?
How did you know we were coming?
Don't you mean astronomy?
Milhouse?! Uh! I've been turning him down for the prom since kindergarten.
Bart, maybe you should listen to this.
You've wrecked my life! / You're gonna wreck my life!
Well Bart, I really appreciate what you're gonna do for me.
My hamster!
He was supposed to be in a show-and-tell this week. That's not gonna happen!
Yay, Mom!
Also, gerontological studies have demonstrated that animal companions can slow the inevitable decline of--
I'm sure everyone's happier with Santa's Little Helper here to love them.
Right after Pat Sajak.
And here's the clincher... Ray Magini is an anagram for "imaginary."
Dad!
That seems... feasible.
Oh my God! Look at these ingredients!
Wow, Krishna Krisps, Amazonkers, Lollapalollipops -- these sound like my kind of snacks...
Ooh, Dalai Lamanade!
"Hydrogenated petroleum oil, monosodium poisonate, partially de-weaponized plutonium?!"
Attention, duped masses!
These new vending machine snacks are crammed with processed sugar, industrial byproducts and trans-fatty acids!
I think he's having a heart attack!
Bart, how can you laugh at that? You just had a heart attack!
I'd better tell Dad.
Um... maybe Mom's the way to go.
I know how we can raise money!
Maybe we could shop somewhere else. There's a farm stand next door.
Well, I think this family should try more vegetarian meals. We'd feel better and live longer.
I brought you some weak tea and dry toast.
It's 'cause your bodies are so used to processed food it's a shock when you eat vegetables full of vitamins, minerals and trace amounts of bug feces.
Stop it! You'll all feel better if you get a little sleep. Now, close your eyes...
HUSH, LITTLE BABY, DON'T SAY A WORD / MAMA'S GONNA BUY YOU A MOCKINGBIRD / AND IF THAT MOCKINGBIRD DON'T SING...
AND IF THAT DIAMOND RING TURNS BRASS / MAMA'S GONNA BUY YOU A LOOKING GLASS
Looks like you guys are on the mend.
Thanks, Bart. That's really sweet.
Ow!
I hope we didn't camp out here for nothing. It's like every kid in Springfield showed up.
And if I win, I'll be on Itchy and Scratchy...
Nicely done, Wind-dancer. But seriously, cruelty to animals is no laughing matter. You can make a difference!
And remember, save the violence for cartoons!
I can't believe I used to date him.
There's no way I'm gonna beat her.
How did you write a song so quickly?
I'VE BEEN TO PARIS / AND LONDON AND TOKYO TOWN / BUT ONE CRAZY BURG / HAS 'EM ALL BEAT HANDS DOWN...
I'M TALKIN' SPRINGFIELD / YOU CAN BUY CHIMICHANGAS / TALKIN' SPRINGFIELD / THE CHICKS HAVE BIG GAZONGAS
THERE'S TIRES / ON FIRE / A GUY NAMED APU
AND SKINNER / AND GRAMPA / AND OL' DISCO STU...
Did I forget to mention yoooouuu?
I'M TALKIN' SPRINGFIELD... WHERE NOBODY SUCKS! Except for Flanders?
No, we did it, Dad.
I really do like working with you, Dad. Will you keep helping me?
LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LAAAAAAA.
I really appreciate your taking such an interest in me, Dad.
Really? What's wrong?
Is it possible to get a green spotlight?
No, it's fine.
That's Cameron. Girls go crazy over him. He's cute, unthreatening, and his smile brought a puppy back to life.
MY KITTY DIED ON CHRISTMAS EVE
DADDY TOLD ME TO BE BRAVE
BUT INSTEAD OF SINGING CAROLS / I WAS DIGGING SNOWBALL'S GRAVE...
But Dad, you don't need to help me by humiliating people.
I don't like sausage.
Dad... you're fired.
Dad, I'm sorry you're hurt, but you left me no choice. You were obnoxious at a level not even permitted in show business.
No one asked you to yell and slash!
You're working with Cameron now?
Dad looks so happy.
Dad, I don't want things to be awful between us. I made you some cookies.
Hi! This lighting's a little bright. And um, could I get a red wash in the background?
Thanks, Dad.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have a confession to make. I didn't have my usual songwriter tonight...
So I took a stab at writing my own song. Something that expresses what's really in my heart.
Bernie, if you please.
I'M IN THE FINAL TWO / I SHOULD BE HAPPY / BUT ALL I WANT TO DO / IS SPEND MORE TIME WITH MY PAPPY... NOW THAT YOU'RE GONE, DAD, I MISS YOU SO MUCH / AND YOUR THREATS AGAINST TEAMSTERS AND TECHIES AND SUCH / YOUR MANAGEMENT STYLE IS LIKE ATTILA THE HUN / YOU WERE VICIOUS, MALICIOUS, BUT YOU GOT THE JOB DONE...
I'M SORRY I HURT YOU, BUT PLEASE DON'T BE SAD / YOU'RE NO LONGER MY COACH, BUT YOU'RE ALWAYS MY DAD...
Dad, you know the best part about this whole thing has been the time we've spent together. I don't care if I win, just as long as you're in my corner again.
Dad, you sabotaged Cameron for me!
Well, I think you're the sweetest Dad in the whole world.
Now you're getting creepy.
Good.
Mom, Bart and I have been talking...
Yeah, the templates had a great run. But we'd like our hair to look like um... people hair.
Yay!
Bart, you look worse than Aunt Patty in the morning. And there ain't nothin' looks worse than Aunt Patty in the morning.
My good-girl points!
Dad?!
Come on -- we'll hide in the theater!
It's the title of the movie.
No, ma'am.
Dad, we love you, but we just don't think the world is coming to an end. Yet. A hundred years, global warming... we're goners. But for now, do you think you could lighten up on this "left below" stuff?
Dad, please don't go through with this. All through history, self-anointed seers have predicted the end of the world, and they've always been wrong.
Dad, if you'll recall, I never believed in you, not for one second.
We've got school tomorrow.
Why didn't we listen to Dad?
Dad, we've been so worried about you!
Oh boy! This is what sunny Sunday afternoons are for!
Her films are so lyrical! The phone lines are gonna be jammed.
Hey, I won four free movie tickets! And it starts in half an hour!
It's Albanian. But the producers added subtitles to make it "commercial."
I feel so much empathy for those villagers. They had to drink their own tears...
Dad, I don't think you realize what you've done. You've totally humiliated the best friend the Simpsons ever had.
That's what we've been trying to tell you!
Well, at least your name's on the bowl.
The ones made from potatoes?
Cooper! More pink lemon-ale!
Cooper! Thy staves are not flush!
Guards, take him to the tower!
Noble idiot! Bring in the pie!
I dedicate this pie to the backbone of the feudal system: the serfs.
Bart, a school-sponsored Medieval festival is supposed to be the best day of a young girl's life, and you ruined it. You deserve to be expelled.
Catholic schools are usually the most affordable private schools.
That's Latin, Dad. The language of Plutarch.
No, Plutarch. He chronicled the lives of the Roman emperors.
Strange as it sounds, Dad, I agree with you.
Everyone should be able to choose their faith -- just like I chose Buddhism.
I'll ignore that. In fact, I'm gonna help you. I have a pretty good idea where they are.
Who's Professor Pigskin?
How is that possible?
I get it. Every week they send out two pamphlets, half picking one team and half picking the other. Eventually, there's a small group of people who only receive the correct predictions -- and think Professor Pigskin is always right! That's when they ask for your money.
Dad, it's a scam!
Look, all I'm saying is, you really should think twice before...
Dad, how much money did you bet?
Those reindeer look really uncomfortable.
Mom, I got a rash where the reindeer licked me.
All we've got is ketchup.
No. I mean ketchup.
Dad, I don't think we're gonna find Mom today. And I'm sick of eating at restaurant chains I've never even heard of, like Skobo's and Dim Willie's.
Ew.
I see Mom!
We've gotta tell Dad! Where is he?
Saving!
This stinks -- my room is the only one that faces that cemetery!
Thanks for making me feel better.
There's no such thing as zombies!
Stop scaring me!
Bart, don't you have homework to do?
I believe in science and reality, not ghosts and monsters!
Can I sleep with you guys tonight?
Well, I heard they finished the stamp museum. That could be fun.
Dad, you fought tooth and nail to get it away from our house.
Wow, look at all these worthy Americans...
The Land of the Wild Beasts? That's the first book I read all the way through.
Groundskeeper Willie?
I thought those people were your friends.
I didn't know grownups said bad things about other grownups.
But I thought it was wrong to talk about people behind their backs.
I know. I'm sorry.
Is it the chair?
Grampa?
What about Bart's bedroom?
Yeah.
Okay, I'll watch TV.
Mom, I think there's a danger this time they might lose the Ponderosa!
I can't keep sleeping in Mom and Dad's room.
Mom showed me how to make a retaining wall out of pillows. But I'm gonna conquer my fears... tonight.
I've changed my mind! Can you please open the gate?
If I can just spend the night here, I'll never be scared again. And boy, you're free to go home whenever you want.
Hi, Dr. Nick.
Bye, Dr. Nick.
We don't go to you anymore. We have a better doctor.
Okay, gotta keep calm. If Scooby Doo has taught me anything, it's that the only thing to fear are crooked real estate developers.
Where am I?
Not scared... not scared...
But I'm too smart to get scared.
You know, you monsters seem scary, but when you get a little closer you're just funny.
But wait. How am I supposed to sleep with that spooky cemetery outside my window?
My Dad says they're too expensive.
I think I'll be okay by myself.
Bye, guys. You really helped me a lot.
New pony?
I think I'm gonna be fine. Let's get some breakfast.
Hi, Bart. I baked you some cookies.
If you two don't mind, I'd like to watch that cool Fox show about teenagers in Orange County.
I bet that bra was planted by Sterling, to break them up.
Dad, I thought Mom kicked you out of the house.
Okay look, you and Mom can fix this. What exactly happened between the two of you?
Where are you staying?
Bart, I think you're behind this whole thing.
I can read you like a book.
If you don't tell Mom what you did, I will.
Enough with the tricks!
Stupid movie schemes do not work in real life. Mom and Dad have a marriage on the rocks and they need to work through it in therapy to make sure it doesn't shatter.
Bart, that would be the stupidest thing you ever did.
Uh, Mom? Remember how you wished we would never grow up?
Having a robot brother troubles me. The ethical implications are really tensing me up.
Goodbye, implications...
I hate going to the zoo. I feel so sorry for the animals.
Dad! Dad! Wake up! You're not a robot!
You're just possessed by the Devil.
Please don't accept this invitation, Dad. Hunting is cruel.
Mom, Mr. Burns is gonna kill Dad!
Ooh, everyone's wearing such an interesting costume.
Look! Grampa's a gorilla, Sideshow Mel is Spiderman, and Nelson's a raccoon...
They're tearing down the pier!
Bart?
You mean this?
I'm worried about Mom. She's been sitting there just petting the dog for two hours.
Mid-June?
Dad, there's no such thing as "Father's Day Eve."
Fine, there's a Daddy Claus.
Sure, why not.
I'm afraid the best thing I could find is this.
You know, this mass-produced junk doesn't express how I feel about Dad. I am making him a present that comes from the heart.
Hello. I'm looking for something in a pipe cleaner. Extra bendy, with medium fuzz.
The unicorns are you and me, Dad. I drew it myself.
What do you think? Huh? Huh? Pretty heartfelt, huh? Huh?
You didn't like it, did you?
Oh Dad, how could you?
I'm not a baby! A baby is zero to two.
I'd rather not go than lie.
Stupid Dad. Doesn't care about my feelings...
Sure, that's all you men do is, take and take and take, without regard to feelings or unicorns...here, take my lunch, too!
Just take my whole backpack!
Oh, it had to be a boy, did it? You think a girl can't flip out? Well, you're wrong!
Don't make me affix it to your file.
I guess.
Janey's father just takes her to the zoo once a month. Couldn't you be that kind of dad?
Oh, yeah.
How did you do that?
This election is out of control. Someone terrible could win!
Ah, Mortadella!
Dad, we've got to do something.
Lincoln was only one man.
Look, as the Safety Salamander, you are beloved by all. And if you were the Mayor, we could make sure that only good people, like me, tell you what to do.
And I will be your campaign manager!
Well, Dad, you tried to make this town a better place. And no matter what, that makes you my hero.
Yeah, I warned you about that.
You don't have a tail anymore.
Nelson, those don't count as Easter Eggs!
Summer opportunities.
Oh my God! Spend a summer in Rome!
Uh... check.
Of course I do. Why would I say it if I didn't?
Vóglio affittáre úna bárca píccola.
Huh?
Arrivedérci, ignorance!
That's my Italian tutor!
Oh, hey Milhouse. I think Bart's upstairs.
Oh sure, I get it. Bart told you I was taking lessons, so you thought you'd come over and--
You really speak Italian?!
Okay, if that means teacher.
Buon giórno, Milhouse.
Thank you. I've been studying. I even made flash cards!
My efforts!
Present.
One gelato for... the pretty girl.
But Luigi, surely you speak Italian.
I had a wonderful time today. Grázie. Grázie míll-eh.
MILHOUSE IS TEACHING ME / TO SPEAK SO PRETTILY / I'LL QUIP SO WITTILY / WHEN I'M IN ITALY...
Milhouse! Just what is going on?
Sono cosí matto a lei! Ho pensato abbiamo avuto qualcosa andando, e poi la prendo con questa sgualdrina! Lei me fa malato!
Grazie. Idioto!
Idioto! Idioto! Idioto!
Well, some people in Europe have the impression that America has made some stupid choices in the past, oh, five years. So for the next week, I'm from Canada.
Dad, don't you want to turn around and see the tower?
When Mount Vesuvius erupted, people were overcome by volcanic ash so fast that they were frozen in whatever position they were in at the moment of their death.
That's a DVD of a Fellini movie!
Mozzarella! Parmigiano! Provolone! Pecorino! Gorgonzola! Fontina! Tallegio! Bocconcini!
Maybe there's a mechanic in this Tuscan village.
Hey, she says the mayor speaks English.
Sideshow Bob!
How did you wind up here?
And literature is filled with tales of redemption, from Jean Valjean to the voice of Buzz Lightyear, Tim Allen.
Dad, don't act like Mussolini!
Bravo! Bravo! Bravissimo!
Whoopsie. I'll just get it out with more wine.
See? S'fine. Go on, go on with the thing.
Yeah, but he's a wanted killer in our community!
More like jailed at Sing Sing!
I feel so sick.
Sideshow Bob!
Dad, you're driving on an ancient Roman aqueduct!
Hey, Krusty's in an opera, here in Rome! He can save our lives! Come on, let's go!
Sideshow Bob has sworn a vendetta against us.
Dad, the Phantom isn't in this.
This is no act, they're actually trying to kill us!
It's Santa!
What are you doing in the chimney?
Oh, Bart, why'd you ask him a follow-up question?
Cyrus? You never mentioned him before.
That's quite a tale, Grampa.
Santa must have left it.
I don't know, Dad. This time of year everybody does it, 'cause you don't have to pay for the music rights.
HE'S AT THE DOOR!
'CAUSE CHRISTMAS EVE IS HERE!
They must have just made this a toll road.
Well, what choice do you have?
Boy, you sure showed them.
"My dearest Mona. You've just left my arms to return to your husband, Abe, and already I ache for you."
Well, this whole fatherhood issue could be resolved with a simple DNA test.
Grampa, stop.
No, but he told us to say hi. Hi!
So... what setting is that fan on?
I would have guessed low.
They had to feed you through a tube.
Our instruments are rusting!
I already made up a yard-sale sign!
My Malibu Stacy heads!
Oh no, Bart blamed this on the dog! I didn't pet him for weeks! Oh, I'm sorry I doubted you, boy.
We've only brought in five dollars. And that came from Mr. Flanders buying back his own stuff.
Well Maggie, I always knew it would some day boil down to just you and me. I'll look for work in the morning.
My saxophone!
You're a jerk! I'm telling Mom!
Willie? I hope I'm not being too personal, but you seem resigned to a life of abject squalor.
Don't you ever hope for anything better?
And...?
ADEQUATE... ADEQUATE...
Bart! Willie could have a better life! If only someone showed him how...
I bet I could turn him into a proper gentleman! And I will do it in time for the School Science Fair!
I think you'll find that deep down, anyone can be civilized. Goodnight, Willie.
Willie, in the next few weeks I'll be teaching you poise, pronunciation and posture. Let's see you stand up as straight as you can.
Okay. How do you address an Archbishop?
Alright, let's just try one more lesson. Repeat after me: "What flows from the nose does not go on the clothes."
No! C'mon, Willie. I believe in you!
Say it again!
I THINK HE'S GOT IT! OH YES HE'S GOT IT!
WHERE IS THAT GHASTLY FLOW?
AND WHERE SHOULD IT NOT GO?
Dad, get your own song.
You're a smash G. K.!
That's where you're wrong, Principal Skinner. I did enter a project... and it's been in plain sight the entire evening!
Mr. G. K. Willington is not who he seems. In fact, he's someone you all know quite well!
I give you... Groundskeeper Willie!
Hm... maybe there's room on my sports wall.
Now you have a friend.
Willie, there are no more lessons. You're a proper gentleman, my work is done.
I think this is the perfect job for the new you, Willie. It requires sophistication, tact, and you get to meet the highest class of people.
So, how you doin', Willie?
With one little difference.
I understand.
Don't worry, Bart. I brought something that'll keep you interested -- a nickel in a water bottle!
It's so impressive.
Oh no!
This chamber's not on the map! We could be stuck in here forever if we don't find a way out!
I'll stay with you, Dad.
Sure. Once upon a time, in a far-off kingdom--
Oh. All right, um, I'll tell you something that happened to me last week. I was walking home from school...
...when suddenly I heard...
Hello, Mr. Bighorn Sheep!
I've read about you. You're shy, and you rarely approach humans!
And of course you'd never attack a fellow herbivore!
Mad beast!
C'mon!
Maybe Mr. Smithers will help us.
You worked at Moe's?
I understand. I'll just read a magazine.
Yeah -- it's like the play within a play in "Hamlet."
Let's see... It's like when you watch old home movies of you watching TV.
Treasure?!
So, to contin-
Well, my best recollection of Burns' paraphrasing of what he read in Moe's letter is that Krabappel told Moe...
My pearl necklace! I must have lost it, and you were just bringing it back to me.
How did you find this?
I want a photo of the hero who risked his life to save me!
Mr. Burns got his plant back, and I like to think I found a shred of humanity in his withered soul.
Aw Dad, did my story make you cry?
Ready!
That was awesome!
I wanna go to the showbiz animal retirement home.
They take in animals from the movies and TV that aren't cute anymore.
Uh... sure.
This is much sadder than I expected.
She looks like she's crying.
No, no, it's still "kid-napped." The prefix applies to the victim.
Dad, you can't keep this up for long.
Maybe there's another way to solve this. Bart is clearly fulfilling an emotional need for Toot-Toot.
Hey, I know how we can save Bart.
He also happens to be Toot-Toot's son.
Nelson, Funny Town doesn't exist.
Listen, we can trade Mr. Teeny for Bart. We just have to find a way to get him up there.
Mother-Flippers? What's this show about?
Dad? Please come home, we miss you. Is that a high-def TV?!
Wow, there's a rainbow outside.
I already saw that exact same show on another network.
This is an ABC sweatshirt.
I don't understand, Dad. Our family has so many flaws. Why must we share them with the world?
But Dad...
Forget it.
Fox flew me out here to bring you back. They flew me on Frito Lay's Air Force Yum!
And I'm required to say "Come to the cool ranch and rope in flavor. Yee ha."
I know who Donald Trump is.
Yeah, the only thing we're known for is leading the country in heart attacks.
It's so strange that the commissioner didn't show up.
We're not dead... and neither are you.
Suicide?!
No! Wait! Wait! Bullfighting is a cruel, pseudo-sport!
HOW MANY BULLS / MUST MY GRANDFATHER KILL...
Dad, that's Mac Tonight.
Grampa, I think you should give up the bullfighting.
But you just got a new lease on life. Why would you want to use it to hurt poor, helpless animals?
I was always cheering for you, Grampa. Till now.
Grampa must've set them free!
De nada, Grampa.
Aw Dad, we'll miss you so much.
Hello?
Calm down, Dad. What happened?
Mom, I'm scared.
Oh yeah? What's Mom's birthday?
What secrets?
I'm proud of you, Dad. You're the first man to ever outsource the American worker's sense of entitlement and privilege.
What about this swordfish?
I know one, about the most important sea voyage in American history. The journey of the Mayflower.
Not prostitutes, Protestants.
The year was sixteen twenty...
Mother, we must protect him. Look, he's praying.
And I will make thee a hat from construction paper!
I keep telling you, the ability to add two-digit numbers is not witchcraft!
Seventy-four.
We haven't gotten our food yet!
I'm starting to think the Sea Captain isn't coming back.
...and you've got the elderly Jewish couple making their first trip to Israel.
We're the band. And we're on!
I THINK WE'RE HEADING FOR DISASTER / AND MOST OF YOU WILL NOT BE SAVED...
UNLESS THE CAPTAIN IS ATTENTIVE / WE'LL ALL BE CRUSHED BY A HUGE WAVE...
This hatchway is jammed!
Okay, the engine room is just through this flooded area. Somebody has to take the rope, swim through to the other side, and tie it off so we can use it as an underwater guide line.
I can't wait to see this re-imagining of Itchy and Scratchy... by avant-garde director Juliana Krellner!
I love the use of streamers as blood. It robs the violence of its power.
Yeah, one for boys and one for girls.
It's so beautiful. Ooh, paintings by female artists! Frida Kahlo, Georgia O'Keefe...
Cathy Guisewite!
Yes.
Are we gonna do any actual math problems?
But... isn't it? I mean, confidence building can't replace real learning!
Okay, boys' school -- I need a challenge!
A mental challenge.
He forgot the volume of the carrot nose -- one-third base times height! Oh math, I have missed you!
Principal Skinner?
Assistant Groundskeeper Skinner, don't you think it's wrong that I can't get the best math education because I'm a girl?
Mom, the girls' school is a joke and I'm not allowed to take the boys' math.
That's right. I'm Toilet.
Well, what can I do? They won't let me in the boys' school.
Mom, I don't think this will fool anybody.
What're you playing?
I'm... Jake.
Uh... Boy... man... Boyman. Jake Boyman.
Yeah, I guess I do.
My name isn't Toilet -- it's Jake!
What are you drawing?
That's easy -- just one, the number five.
So... do you miss having the girls around?
Did you know Lisa Simpson? I heard she was pretty cool.
What the hell are you talking about?!
I have to go.
Nelson, you're not really angry at me. You're full of rage 'cause your father abandoned you.
And because you're poor, so you don't feel like you're good enough.
You just want somebody to say "I love you". I love you.
Eep.
Not yet. If I do, she'll never let me go to the boys' math class again.
You'd do that for me? That is so sweet.
Ow, that hurt.
I'm gonna be sick.
What have I become?
Fine, I'll beat up Ralph.
Uh, give me your lunch money.
Uh... uh...
Forgive me for this.
Sure!
Peew! Peew!
Thank you. Or should I say thank you!
That's right, everyone. The best math student in the whole school is a girl!
That's a lie!
I always thought that boys had it easier. But now I see their world is more cruel and sadistic than I ever imagined.
And I did get better at math, but it was only by abandoning everything I believed in. I guess the real reason we don't see many women in math and science is...
Well, whatever the answer is, I'm glad I'm a girl and I'm glad I'm good at math. Now enjoy your stupid flautist.
Dad, all you had to do was paint one number. Now no one's gonna be able to find our house.
Mom, what are you doing?
This is a total stranger who cleans houses for a living. Who cares what she thinks?
I'm Lisa, I'm eight years old, and this might sound presumptuous, but -- I'm your favorite.
Well, talk to me in a week.
The sound of the baby must have triggered a primal mnemonic response in Mom's brain.
This is horrible.
Dad, we don't want you to leave!
Well, now it's time for my summer activity. You promised we could go to a museum.
I'm so glad you picked the Museum of Natural History, Mom.
Bart, it's still history.
Creationism? But that's not science.
How can you teach the book of Genesis as a scientific theory?
This is slander! Darwin was one of the greatest minds of all time!
Evolution is widely acknowledged as scientific fact. It's even accepted by prominent conservatives, like George Will and the late Pope John Paul!
All I'm saying is--
They're making us learn creation theory in school. Today we had a test, and every answer was "God did it."
But they're incompatible!
Mom, you really have to choose here, between science and belief.
Dad, you're not really reconsidering evolution, are you?
I have an issue I'd like to raise!
Last week, the unscientific theory of creationism was introduced alongside evolution in Springfield public schools.
Evolution and Creationism cannot co-exist, people. It is time to go back to teaching one single truth!
I'm so glad you could all come. I'll be reading to you from "The Origin of Species" by Charles Darwin.
Chapter One: When we compare the individuals of the same variety or sub-variety of our older cultivated plants and animals...
There are so many worse crimes. Why are you persecuting me?
I'm sorry, Mom. I should have just gone with the flow like you said.
Thanks, Mom.
Mr. Flanders, wait!
I want you to know, I respect your beliefs and I can see how deeply you feel about them.
I just don't think religion should be taught in our schools, any more than you'd want scientists teaching at the church.
It's amazing they've gotten five hundred and twelve shows out of this premise.
But, Grampa, in nineteen forty-two, they only played women's baseball here.
Shake it off, Buck!
I concur!
Isn't it weird that our parents are giving marital advice? They're always fighting -- if you listen closely, you can hear them arguing right now.
Otto, help me!
I'm not afraid of you.
I understand. I'm not like my Dad either.
There's a triple A battery in my macaroni and cheese!
I can't eat this.
Well, you're not gonna find any here.
It's delicious!
No, it's great! Except for the bee!
You could make a great chef someday.
Mom!
Oh Michael, one bite of this soufflé and your father will realize your gift deserves to flower.
Fat Tony, it's not important what other people think of you. What matters is how you feel, inside!
Where did you get that?
It's so great that Michael's doing what he loves.
Why didn't you tell him it was an accident? It was an accident, right? Michael?
Michael?
You guys need a break. Why don't I take Bart with me to the children's be-bop brunch at Jazzy Goodtime's?
Hey Bart, you wanna jam with me?
Not bad for a newbie, Bart! You just may be the second-best player up here. In case you're wondering who the best one is, it's me.
Yes, I am.
Pleased to meet you.
Yes...
Yes?
Yes!
Oh, I can't believe...
'Cause I've wanted to jam with jazz musicians all my life! How would Bart like it if I just hopped on his skateboard and instantly became great?
Mild-mild-mild-mild-mild!
It's jazz! Jazz! You don't even know the name of the thing you are stealing from me!
I always wanted a jazz nickname!
That is the most unfair...
Bart, does that even mean anything?
Mom, I'm gonna lose it! Bart's on the cover of both local jazz magazines: "Blowin'" and "The Sugar Sheet".
Here's the only thing I've been on the cover of.
That might work.
Aww, they're all so cute.
Well, I kind of like this guy...
Ooh, but this one is precious!
Okay, this little guy's coming home with me! Who's gonna get neutered tomorrow? You are! Oh, yes you are.
I did? How?
I never wanted that to happen!
I won't get tired of him!
I'll take him too!
I'll take him too.
Okay, guys. No one knows you're here, so be quiet. And if you get hungry, there are rats living in the Christmas decorations.
Shut up! I just said "shut up." I'll punish myself by going upstairs.
Bart! What are you doing here?
No, Buttercup! No!
I feel so terrible. I just wanted to save those animals while Bart became a drummer... but I never thought the two stories would intersect.
Sure.
I guess that's it. These animals are all gonna die.
Do you have an idea?
Oh, Bart, thank you so, so much!
This place is looking a little run down.
Now it's a collection of candle kiosks and Persian CD stores.
I never wanna go back to that mall. There were eels in the photo booth!
Wow Mom, you made all this?
This is a valuable skill. People might even pay you to build things for them.
Bart, Skinner's gonna be really mad at you.
Whatever, I've got some paper to mâché.
Dad, here's a thought: if you just gave Mom credit, maybe she could help you.
I'd like a Daddy who lived in the real world.
Dad, put aside your selfish male ego and tell the truth!
Dad, no! It could teach us the secret of interstellar travel!
Bart, did your mystical Jewish monster beat up those bullies?
Hmm, well I think your golem doesn't like hurting people. And I'll prove it.
Speak.
Do you feel bad about what you did?
He sure is neurotic for a monster.
Just write a scroll, asking him to stop.
What is everyone doing?
Martians? You do know that radio broadcast was a hoax?
Yeah. It was an Orson Welles radio play of "War of the Worlds."
Dad! A flying saucer blew up that statue!
Standardized tests, standardized tests, standardized tests...
Fur is murder! When's the Krusty movie coming out?
Well, you'd better hurry. I don't think Dad can last much longer where he's hiding.
Mom, we've got to stop them from pacifying our town!
Colonel, I hope you've learned that an occupying foreign force can never defeat a determined local populace. Among the many things we learned in Vietnam is that a well-motivated...
My report on a "Fascinating Springfielder" is due Monday, and everybody I've tried to interview is so boring.
How many others do you have?
What a deep, tormented soul...
Moe!
You have a worldview both bleak and beautiful! I wanna write a report about you!
Because I suspect deep within you is an artist's soul.
Moe, these fragments are fascinating. "I was in the Christmas pageant once. Mom showed up with a new boyfriend. He called me Steve."
What you've got here is poetry!
You know, artfully arranged, these fragments could be an epic poem -- like T.S. Eliot's "The Wasteland."
How 'bout this for a title: "Howling at a Concrete Moon."
Philistines.
I don't care about my grade. I'm gonna send Moe's poem to "American Poetry Perspectives."
Moe, you're a published author!
Who was that?
The Wordloaf Festival?! You'll meet all the great American writers, Moe! You have to go!
I'm not here.
It's Tom Wolfe! He uses more exclamation points than any other major American writer.
But we were a team!
Mr. Szyslak -- there must be some person, possibly in this very room, who believed in you when no one else did.
But how can you--
But... I deserve... acknowledgement...
You guys go ahead. I don't think I'd be very good company...
Moe, you're a heartless jerk!
Moe marginalized my contributions...
Oh, Moe.
Dad, no! I'm not mad at Moe anymore!
Well Moe, I guess we're friends again.
I'd like that. I'd like it a lot.
Bart, what are you doing?
How can we forget? Mom says now we can't afford to go to the orthodontist.
Grampa's been watching us.
Mom! Mom!
Comic Book Guy! Have you seen our Mom?
Mom! Bart's drinking coffee!
I hope everything's okay.
County Fair music?
You actually convinced people not to go to Nelson's party?
Ah c'mon Bart, the party will be fun. Nelson's not bad -- all he needs is a little kindness.
All right, no husband.
So, how was Nelson's party?
Haw haw!
Dad, can't you read me a story for a little bit?
Angelica Button and the Dragon King's Trundle Bed. It's the ninth book in the "Angelica Button" series.
No.
Oh Dad, I'm tired. We'll read more tomorrow.
No! We have to read it together.
Hey Bart, do you want some ice cream? I just hit a major marshmallow vein - Ooo, I think it goes all the way to the bottom!
What's wrong?
C'mon Dad, read the last chapter! Everyone says there's a big surprise -- I bet Angelica discovers that she's a wizard!
It would be the day my childhood ended.
Come on, read, read!
Why are you stopping? We're almost at the happy ending!
Is that really how it ends? What happened to the Merlinical Council?
Dad, you can read to me anytime.
Dad's ending is better.
What I want can't be bought at any store.
What? No! I mean, that's a given. But also, the Malibu Stacy Pony Beach Party Set with Sparkle Sand. It's sold out everywhere.
Really?
Thank you, thank you, thank you!
Oh, you poor man. Fired on Christmas Eve!
It's Christmas! It's Christmas! It's Christmas!
Kinda.
It's your foot doctor, Gil! Yes... yes... oh dear... I can't tell him that.
Oh, man. Now he's even mooching our lunches.
Back to Scottsdale.
End of story.
Mom, I understand your psychological need, but I'm not sure what you can do.
There he is!
Dad, there aren't any places left to sit.
Ta-da!
Ta-da!
Ugh. This is the most disgusting place we've ever gone.
After Brazil.
Yum-yum fish?
Maybe you just overfished them.
Maybe you killed them all.
Maybe you should be ashamed of yourself!
It's not over yet!
Oooh, an institute!
Bart!
Wait! Haven't you learned a lesson here? Over-fishing and greed have brought this town nothing but rack and ruin.
Repent! Repent! Before it's too late! I always wanted to do that in a New England church.
This is not what I wanted at all!
Chill Thunder! "Chill Thunder"!
Papa, may we have petit fours?
Uh... deux... troi....
FRÈRE JACQUES, FRÈRE JACQUES / DORMEZ-VOUS, DORMEZ-VOUS...
Papa Meaux! Papa Meaux!
Dad, wait, I've got a story about why revenge is wrong.
No.
I call it..."Revenge of the Geeks."
Milhouse, thanks to you, the nerds can breathe easy. Except the ones with asthma. Which is all of them. But still, it's great.
Milhouse, what's gotten into you?
No, no! You've already got your revenge!
There are no small parts, just small actors.
Milhouse, don't you see... you're addicted to revenge.
I see. While it would be an honor to be your queen...
I feel it would be best if we just stayed friends.
The point, Dad, is that when you take revenge, you become just as bad as the person you harm.
But it didn't bring your parents back. Tell me, big boy, was it really worth it?
Tomorrow's Multicultural Day at school.
I've got to give a presentation about our family's heritage. But ours is so boring!
Bart, stop that. Native Americans are a proud people with a noble heritage... A noble heritage that anyone can claim!
"My great-great, great-great great grandmother was a Native American. She was a member of the..."
...Hitachee Tribe.,hitachee tribe,2
Wait, is it wrong for me to appropriate the culture of a long-suffering people?
You're right. I'll just need to find "traditional garb"...
...and so my proud people were nearly destroyed by the warfare, disease, and greed of the invading Europeans.
Today the Hitachees have dwindled to a handful, and our detailed genealogical records were cruelly destroyed by the white man. So, any attempts to research my tribe would be the ultimate insult.
Oh... great! I'd... love to.
The Hitachees invented women's lacrosse... soft luggage...
And that thing where you're walking and someone's walking towards you and you each try to step aside but you both go the same way and you do it again and again until one of you just scoots around? They had seven names for that.
Uh, thank you and goodnight.
Show's over, let's go!
Well, some of my report... um... wasn't thoroughly fact-checked.
Yes, we're among the lostest.
Centered. Centered. You know where the four states come together?
Not there. Not even close.
We were south... west of... North Dakota-lahoma.
Slow down! You're too close to that car! Your hands should be at ten and two, not three and nothing!
I'll be good.
The people of my tribe lived in harmony with the land.
Eating mock buffalo steaks made from peaceful turnip roots, uh, they... environment... umm, dignity... corn god... I'm sorry, I can't do this!
I made it all up! There is no Hitachee tribe! I took the name from my microwave! But surely you can forgive a little girl who--
Yes, you should've!
Bart, that's a blowhole!
Oh Fah-ther, my pony Buttercup can jump ever so high-- Hoo-boy, it's Mr. Burns.
At bedtime, he tucks me in tighter than anyone else could. And you know what? No monsters have gotten me yet.
What kind of lunch is this? A drawing of a sandwich?
Excuse me.
Lisa Simpson, with the school paper.
Am I to understand you're purposely denying education to these children?
You haven't heard the last of this!
No you haven't!
You asked to see me?
Me... a tutor?
THE HILLBILLY TYKES WILL BECOME MY TUTEES!
My name's Lisa. What are your names?
And that's how a presidential veto gets overridden. Any questions?
Hm... maybe the best way to begin your education is to get you some exposure to the wider world. So I'm gonna take you to downtown Springfield!
And guess what -- Ben and Ken the Street Magic Men are only the beginning! The city is a treasure trove of culture and multi-culture!
MISTOS AND LATTES AND GRANDES AND VENTIS / BROWSING AT BOOKSTORES WITH FAT COGNOSCENTIS!
PRE-TENTIOUS LAUGHS AT BUNUEL RETROSPECTIVES...OUTSIDER ART MADE BY MENTAL DEFECTIVES!
Your minds are opening! Take it home!
MRS. SKIN-NER IS "MAME"!
Well it's nice to see you again, Krusty, but these kids have field trip journals to write!
Mr. Spuckler, wait! Is this really good for your kids?
Dad, those kids aren't dumb. This show just perpetuates the stereotype that all yokels are hicks!
Krusty, the Spuckler kids missed their reading class today.
Cletus, I think you're spending too much of the kids' earnings on yourself.
Stop the tour!
Cletus, I had to stop you exploiting the children, so I sent her an e-mail.
'Tweren't nothin'.
Check out this pinball machine! "Chevy Chase in 'Foul Play'."
Pong!
Pong!
Pong!
Hey, Mr. Flanders, what'd you get?
As always, I have some ideas.
Fort. That's build a "fort."
What's the password?
What if we're not here?
Dad, don't throw rice, it makes the birds swell up!
It begins.
Nelson, you came to our side in our hour of need.
We did it! Now we can enjoy Boxingham Palace in peace!
Sure, I guess. A couple of birds pooped on it over here.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR HOMER / HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU!
Dad, you're out of shape even for an American.
It's so hard to choose just one item worthy of the safe. So I made this elaborate decision tree, which in itself is worthy of preservation.
I picked my Malibu Stacy hybrid convertible. It runs on her old makeup and out-of-style shoes.
Dad, that's ridiculous.
I agree, Mom, it's very sad. But we'll have to move on -- it's not like we can restage all our family photos.
Ooo, there's my first saxophone recital!
Duffman's on a date with Booberella!
Yes, but why does it have to be in my bedroom?
It's eleven at night and I can't get to sleep!
Okay.
Okay, this is the place.
No! Should I attach it for you?
And this website will tell you the weather.
I'm proud of you, Mom. You're like Christopher Columbus -- you discovered something millions of people knew about before you.
It's seven a.m.
Bart, it's not Saturday.
Dad, I'm going to play soccer.
I fell in love with the game when I saw "Bend It Like Beckham."
You tell him, Jesminder!
You already promised you would.
What happened to the ref?
Dad, where'd you get that outfit?
You don't even know the rules! This could be my new thing, and you're turning it into a joke!
Sadly, no. I'm disappointed with the way you acted today... but I'm not surprised.
Dad, I'm impressed! You've become a much better referee.
Um, uh...
Ow! She tripped me. Ow! Owww!
You can't give me a yellow card?! You're my father!
This is what I think of your yellow card!
But, but...
Great. The one time you actually do something right, you ruin my life.
Not interested.
Gimme, gimme, gimme!
No.
Dad, I can't forgive you because there's nothing to forgive.
You were right to kick me out of that game. Soccer was making me insane, just as it did the continents of Europe and South America.
So from now on I'll play soccer for the same reason I study chemistry -- for fun!
Do you want to play a little?
Mom, are you sure you don't wanna play?
All this fuss for a baseball game? Why don't thousands come to watch a teacher inspire a child?
Hide the sports section!
Bart, come with me. I'll take you to someone who will make you feel better.
He died, Bart. Dad buried him in the back yard. But not in that order.
Bart, meet Joe LaBoot.
Feel better now, Bart?
The person who hates Bart more than anyone else. Look!
Mom, put your glasses on.
Bart, stop! No one's mad at you anymore! Right?
Can't we?
Are you sure?
I think maybe we cou-ould.
Then I guess you wouldn't mind eating one.
Maybe it was the same person who tied each of the dog's feet to a toy car.
I can't believe you listened to this magazine. It's a Larry Flynt publication!
I can't -- I won't!
Make her stop!
Larry Flynt? Larry Flynt? Larry Flynt? Larry Flynt? Larry Flynt? Larry Flynt?
I've read that people do strange things in their sleep when they've taken Ambien -- I mean Nappien.
See? "May cause dry mouth, mood swings, and nighttime kookiness."
That's just someone barbecuing.
But Mom, the lifeguards have to know.
Mom, is Dad stealing from people he's supposed to help?
He is stealing!
Springfield squash -- the most fibrous variety of yellow squash!
Dad, we're in the maze.
Dad, why don't you throw me in the air, and I can see which way is out.
Corn... More corn... Another kid getting' thrown in the air... witch's coven... Seattle Space Needle... Amateur production of "You Can't Take It With You"... I'm getting dizzy... And corn again.
Finally! I knew we could solve that maze using Tremaux's algorithm.
No you didn't -- your plan was to burn the corn.
Maybe there's something in Dad's backpack.
A sports bra?
Dad!
Um... I don't think he's ever thought about anything.
What's the matter, Bart?
What if Santa's Little Helper stops being a police dog? Then he can get a non-violent job, like barking songs on novelty Christmas records. You can do it, boy!
No, boy, that's Hanukah.
Ew! He is slimy!
I've got something!
The sixth-grade security camera shows three empty desks!
Good work, Database.
I've got a visual.
I already read it.
Wait, Milhouse -- hold your position. Something doesn't add up.
Look what the bullies could have stolen...
Big Chief Rotten Cheeks Chewing Tobacco...a take-a-penny tray with a quarter in it!
So why steal the yogurt? We have to find out what they're up to.
I've lost Milhouse.
Principal Skinner, you know we have only one agent who stands a chance with those bullies. My brother.
Principal Skinner, as we both know, but you might need reminding, the annual bake sale provides ninety percent of the school's funding.
Jimbo drew a couple of pictures of his house in second grade. But I can't vouch for their accuracy -- the teacher gave him a frowny-face.
Sir, we have to call off this bake sale, now!
We have to find those bullies before the bake sale starts. Martin, run a top-down search on the school security grid.
Martin, anything?
So true.
We have a fire alarm in the ventilation room!
I am. You're on a Bluetooth cell phone, the most vulnerable device known to man.
A mole?!
Bart, are you all right? Bart?
My God, that's a class-five stench-dispersal unit! We have to short out that fan.
But you and Willie will drown!
Dad, that's a bomb!
How do I stop it?!
Oh, that's convenient.
Yeah, Dad.
Make room for Jumbo.
Nothing.
Yeah, Bart.
Bart's makin' faces, Dad.
Oh Bart, you fall for that every six months.
You're going to the dentist too, Dad.
This film is against tooth decay, but it also kind of glamorizes it. Mixed signals, hmm.
Dad, that's ludicrous!
No! I mean Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, right here in the dental plaza!
Kent Brockman said a horrible swear!
I'm not sure Brockman's out of the woods yet. There are a lot of religious watch-dog groups out there... keeping the world safe from the horror of free expression.
And you're constantly flouting the law.
One thing I've always wondered: how can Fox News be so conservative, when the Fox network keeps airing raunchy shows? They don't fit together.
Not true. You've got the guts -- and I've got a web cam! This time you can tell the truth...
Here we go. Four-three-two...
Mr. Brockman, you're a huge hit!
World.
One... two...
I guess there's just no place for truth and bravery in today's media.
Of course. Gosh, Dad, your hands are shaking!
Oh my God! You don't suppose they're gonna start--
Hi, Dad.
Yay, Dad!
Good luck on your first day, Dad.
You're our hero!
I'm so proud of you, Dad!
And at least we can take the extra income you've earned in the last few months and set it aside for a rainy day.
Dad, all you circled were the "I's" and "A's".
I just want a simple salad with pine nuts, haricots verts, seasonal heirloom tomatoes...
Bart, that's not a restaurant, it's somebody's house.
Look at the crowd around that table.
We crashed a funeral!
We should get out of here. Come on.
It is! Tenor Andrea Bocelli recorded an entire song on his back.
And you contributed to our culture!
No, no. It's a good thing.
The dance isn't till next week.
Dad, I think someone's trying to kill you!
I don't see anything suspicious... except someone is loudly unwrapping their candy.
No.
Shout!
Shout!
Shout!
HEY-EY-EY-EY-EY!
A LITTLE BIT LOUDER NOW!
There must be a website that can help you deal with a clingy baby.
Click that one, Mom. / No, go up! / Keep going, up, up, up! / The blue ones are ads! / That's the toolbar! / Now you've opened "Word!" Close it. / Close it, don't save it! / Stop clicking! / Don't go there! / Why are you buying a freezer?!
You clicked the cart!
Creative Responses for Infant Edu-loving!
They come to your home to help you raise independent, self-actualized children. The counselors can come day and night because they have no families themselves.
Dad? Where are you?
Working? Where?
You sound weird.
To be fair, the millennium just started, so it's not that big a deal... But they're giving it to me!
...and the Father-Daughter Dance.
Just dance.
Mom, I think there's something you're trying to avoid. Or someone.
Whatever we did, we're sorry.
It sounded like you were.
Ice cream! Ice cream! / Dad's the best!
Oh my God, an alien! I'm gonna blow Rachel Goodman away at show-and-tell!
As this month's rotating president of the Springfield Future Scientists Club, may I say: I'm sorry. And is there anything we can do to help?
Fiber-optic cable, Uranium two thirty-five, two tickets to "Avenue Q", seven billion body bags...
Can I weld that?
Way to get rid of Bart. He can be such a pest.
They were in yesterday's New York Times!
Ha, you missed them! Bart and our alien friend are hundreds of miles away by now.
I can't believe that an alien who looked so evil turned out to be bad.
What do we do now?
I'm concerned we might be heading down a slippery slope. What do you think, Nelson?
I fed your fish.
I warned ya. And yet my punishment is no less severe. That's odd.
Oh, that's great.
Tarantulas! I'll save you, Baby Burps-A-Lot!
Spider burps!
Who is it?
That's not the Milhouse I know.
Oh, Milhouse! You're very brave.
Milhouse, that was the bravest thing I've ever seen.
That's so poetic.
Bart, Bart, Bart. You're worried you're losing Milhouse. And love is a selfish thing.
Oh really? The more you deny it, the more I know it's true.
God, that was lame! Where did you get that?!
Aw, it's okay.
I got dolphin.
Asterix! Tintin! I heard these only existed in high school French classes.
Oh no, I ripped it.
Look at all these alternative comic book creators...
Alan Moore, Art Spiegelman... Oh, Dan Clowes!
I really identified with the girls in "Ghost World." They made me feel like I wasn't so alone.
Mm-hm.
Mom, every workout appointment is booked up for months! We'll have to open a second Shapes. We just need to find a vacant rental property. Hmm...
Dad, are you okay? I see food on your plate instead of blurring motions.
Yes.
And Dad, I hope you learned something from this.
It's "hoist with his own petard."
The TiVo is installed! Now we can watch shows, and skip the commercials!
Oh no we won't!
Mom, what are you doing?
No! No! Prop Eighty-Seven lets big polluters off the hook!
Yummy, yumma!
WE'RE GOING TO A REST'RANT GRAND OP'NING / WE'RE GOING TO A REST'RANT GRAND OP'NING...
WE'RE GOING TO A REST'RANT GRAND OP'NIIIIIIIING... / BUT DON'T FILL UP ON BREAD!
I see no grill, oven, or food of any kind.
That voice!
That commercial was a trick -- specifically designed to lure our family here!
And "Wes Doobner's World Famous Family Style Rib Huts" is actually an anagram!
Sideshow Bob!
You never ask what we've been up to. We went to the strawberry patch and I picked the most strawberries!
Which one?
Actually, you made one. What Shakespeare really said was "'twere well it were done quickly."
Macbeth, act one, scene seven. Look it up!
Look, that's Sideshow Bob's mother -- Dame Judith Underdunk! She's the greatest classical actress of her generation.
Feet? Killing?! We gotta save Bart!
Now!
Bob planned this from the beginning --
He wanted to be captured at the restaurant!
He would never get a Shakespeare quote wrong --
His mother was a Shakespearean actress!
His father is a doctor...
...so when Bob collapsed in the courtroom...
...his father could take that opportunity to inject Bob with a powerful drug that simulated death.
It was a diabolical scheme, and every member of his family played a part!
Stop that cremation!
I grew suspicious when I saw the casket had extra room built in for your feet.
Why would your family pay all that extra money for the comfort of a dead man?
But won't that just shift the burden to your children?
That means that Springfield's presidential primary will be first in the nation! Even earlier than New Hampshire!
I think it's exciting -- Springfield is the center of the political universe. I feel like a pundit in a think tank!
Look, we all care about quintile disparity, but the Democrats can't win with another prissy brainiac.
Mom, they're taking Ralph's candidacy seriously! This is a disaster.
Oh dear God.
C'mon Lis, hop on the Wiggum Wagon. Ralph said he'd let me be Secretary of Indian burns. Here's my first official act:
Ow!
And Ralph is only eight years old! It says in the Constitution you have to be thirty-five.
Leave him alone, you vultures!
Ralph and I used to date.
Ralph, they have no right to do this to you. They just want to use you.
Maybe you whaaa--?
Maybe you wouldn't be such a bad president.
I like the sound of that.
Dad, I'm freezing.
Mom, I didn't know you went to college!
You know, Mom and Dad are almost forty, and Bart is ten. That means you didn't have him until way after high school.
We're in every kind of therapy!
We're in the middle of our own story, thank you.
It seemed like twenty.
What did I miss? How did it end?
Goodbye! / See ya later!
Bart, no, it's Valentine's Day.
In the first place... do whatever you want. I'm getting' a candy apple.
A story suitable for children!
I did not!
Mo-om!
Sounds like fun. Can I play?
How is that fun? Fun is only fun if everyone's having fun.
Mom, what are you doing?
Do you do it with relish?
The radio lets me contribute directly to NPR.
I never dreamed an American car designed in Germany, assembled in Mexico from parts made in Canada, could be so amazing.
Dad?
See that hippo rolling in dung? You're the dung.
You wrote a report on it last week!
It's disgusting!
Now you two play nice!
Hey Martin, what are you doing?
May I join you?
Bart, he's not gonna get it!
Forget it.
Oh my God!
Grab onto this! C'mon, wake up!
Bart! You can't just run away from this!
But Bart...
Bart, Martin could be seriously hurt, or worse.
Oh my God!
Hey, I was trying to help him. At worst, I'm an accomplice. I'm an accomplice!
Uh... let's think about this. Martin's gone, but it was an accident. Ruining our lives won't bring him back.
I'm saying this is worse than a million A-minuses!
We-were-never-outside-we-were-here-all-day.
That's-usually-true-but-in-this-case-it's-not.
Bart, keep it together. People are looking!
Don't you weasel out on me!
What do you mean "what's up"? Why would something be up?
Idiot!
Nothing!
What?!
Act like you're shopping! We can't be seen together.
Exactly.
Give me an Indian burn!
Don't make me say Indian again!
Bart, I have a plan: we go to the morgue and come back with a hand. Put its fingerprints all over the railing...
Why are you being so quiet, Bart? Are you judging me? Please don't judge me.
I can't live with the guilt. I'm going to Martin's house... to end it all!
Bart! No! Don't do...
...whatever the heck you're doing.
I can't take it anymore! The stress is killing me! I'm on a freight train to Crazytown!
You calm down!
What was that?
Aren't they beautiful?
It's a tape. Martin must've set it to go off when the chrysalises hatched.
I thought I turned that tape off.
"Congratulations on purchasing the Sanyo DL30, the finest non-reversing tape player..."
Where is this music coming from?
Get off me!
His foot is caught in my button hole.
I almost flicked an innocent butterfly. Bart, we're turning into monsters!
No, not cool! We have to do the right thing, and come clean! Listen, world! We killed Martin Prince!
I'm just glad it was you who brought us in, Nelson. Remember when we used to date? If you let me go, we can get back together. I never let you cherry bomb my Malibu Stacey -- I'll let you do it now.
I learned that beneath my goody two-shoes lie some very dark socks.
The last book in the series goes on sale at midnight, and we're gonna go stand in line.
I based my costume on the books, not the movies.
Angelica's first kiss, da, da, da... Subplot about her cat, who cares?... Professor Skizzletwitch is a Were-bear... And, uh, no, no he's not... Maluicious Krubb is actually Kraluicious Mubb!
All is lost... Angelica uses the spell she learned in chapter six... Magic, magic, magic... All is won!
TV! TV! TV!
I didn't know you cared about ballet.
No.
Oh. Oh.
So what happened?
Really? How?
Do you think mine...
Oh.
Mom, it's not too late to un-shatter your dream! Martha Graham danced well into her seventies.
Well... she danced into her seventies.
This is how I always stand when I tell adults what they should be doing.
Uh, I don't know I--
I'm sorry, I got confused.
This is so hard!
How do you cope with it?
Cigarettes?! They could kill you. They did a whole episode about it on "The Suite Life of Zach and Cody"! Zach tried to impress a girl by smoking. But she went for Cody instead! Zach's life wasn't so sweet then.
Wowww... No! All I need to stay focused is good old-fashioned fresh air.
Nothing like fresh air.
Fresh air.
I've gotten better since this morning. How could that have happened?
I thought they were cancer sticks.
Look, everyone knows that cigarettes are where flavor lives and a cool choice for a hot night. But they're for losers!
My feminist heroes!
No, stop buying me leg warmers! I'm already wearing six pairs!
Lisa, Mom. I'm Lisa.
When's our next break?
What am I doing? I don't need secondhand smoke to do ballet.
I need firsthand smoke!
A sturgeon is a fish.
That's easy for you to say. You've never had to be thin and focused.
I'm just saying it's gonna be hard for me to quit, especially before the recital.
Is it Bart?
I can't -- I promised I wouldn't.
Well, since you cared enough to apply peer pressure...
All right, that's enough!
I want to talk about a horrible practice afflicting millions of Americans. For years we've known how dangerous it is. It stunts your growth. And it's marketed to children. I'm talking about ballet.
Ballet is unnatural and unfair to women. I shall now cast off the shoes of oppression!
And I'm happy to be smoke-free -- thanks to these children's nicotine patches.
Dad... Dad? Wake up!
You can just drop me off here.
I'm delivering your Scout Gal Cookies, Mayor Quimby! That'll be thirty dollars!
The money helps us serve the community! We plant trees, pick up litter, cut up milk bones for old dogs...
And I used rhetoric in my answer!
Where's all the money?
Sir, I didn't get this "skepticism" merit badge falling for promises like that.
I would strongly support that measure.
Panic not, fellow Springfielders!
I've gone through the town's financial records, and it turns out there are millions in uncollected city taxes.
Hey Dad, that's the singer you used to manage!
Double ew!
Ew!
Southern-fried succubus?
What lap?
KEEP IT DOWN, I'M READING "HARRY POTTER!"
Aw, cheer up, you've still got your talent, and that new song you wrote is gonna be a really big hit.
Awww.
Mom! We need a Callaway titanium perimeter-weighted driver!
Banana bread!
Bart... you do know what happens next.
Bart, are you all right?
What you heard was your conscience telling you to stop eating meat.
All right, so I put that there to get you to stop eating meat. But your body is going to miss the protein. So you'll have to take these pills.
Okay. Meet me halfway -- stop stirring your lemonade with a sausage.
Come on.
It's a no-brainer.
Don't worry. I called some animal activists who can help us get in. I'll just give the signal. Milk is murder!
Yeah, it's my code name. This is Compost. And this is Solarpanel.
Lisa's Brother.
Of course he did. His food is laced with growth hormones.
Come on!
Wow, you did learn a lot at 4-H.
Well, your friend Mary from 4-H lives on a farm -- Lou can stay with her!
He wants to know your name.
What's going on?
Bart, I'll find a way to get you out of this wedding. In the meantime, just say yes, so Lou will be safe -- look how happy he is.
Mom! Dad! Bart's marrying one of Cletus' daughters!
Wait! If you stop the wedding, Bart's cow will die! And he really cares about that cow... and Bart doesn't usually care about stuff, so... help.
I'll get your fabrics!
For you, Dad -- I consider that a victory.
Anything?
I'm sorry, but as a filmmaker I have to face the truth.
Well, I guess I could cut loose and do a little homework.
I can start working on my school video project. The assignment is to film the beauty of the everyday. So let's see...
There's drama and inspiration everywhere I look.
I am a born filmmaker!
Oh, that's a funny joke, Mr. Kinkaid. Is this an art class or a comedy class? Seriously, why is it three?
Three it is! You're the teacher, and I accept your decision.
The man is an idiot!
Principal Skinner, I didn't know you knew so much about film.
They sound great... I'd love to read them sometime.
Orlando or Hollywood?
Yeah. Getting back to my grade...
Well, according to Aristotle, drama contains six elements: plot, theme, character--
Okay, but can I just finish the smarty-pants answer?
My family. ...Language, rhythm and spectacle.
This is so generous. How can I ever repay you?
Um, okay.
I'm making a documentary about a very special family.
No, us!
No Dad, I want you to play Homer Simpson.
Okay everyone -- just be yourself. Don't look in the camera, pretend I'm not here, and... no toupees...
And... let's roll.
What are you boys doing on the Foley stage?
Okay, one more take.
Dad, no!
My movie got in! I'm going to the Sundance Film Festival!
I can't believe I'm a director with a movie at Sundance.
These badges will get us into any of the independent movies playing at Sundance.
This is it! My premiere!
I'm Lisa Simpson. And this is my family.
Happy birthday, Mom.
I didn't mean it like that! A lot of things got changed in the editing room.
Proudly edited by Lisa Simpson!
Oh, I was just trying to accurately portray my unique and quirky home life.
Guys, guys! Look, it's a documentary -- nobody outside of this festival is ever gonna hear about it.
I can't believe what I've done -- maybe deep down I always knew how much this film would hurt them. Maybe I'm the monster this movie exposed.
Oh... hi, Mr. Jarmusch.
That doesn't sound like your kind of movie.
Ew... so, do you think my family will ever forgive me for making them a laughing stock?
Nelson? He couldn't have made a movie by himself. Who helped him?
It's just a cat.
Thank you, Mr. Jarmusch -- you've taught me a valuable lesson that other people have bigger family problems than I do.
Well, I uh...
Wow, I guess Nelson's the hot thing now. My movie will probably never be seen.
Are you guys still mad at me?
Mom, you tricked us!
I wanna go lecture the food court businesses that are still using Styrofoam!
I want a poodle!
Doctor.
Professor.
Chef!
CEO!
You know, it's a boy dolphin.
We fooled her... Betsy.
Uh, Mom? We've got a code four.
I hear noises coming from the kitchen!
Wow, Dad was so cute as a baby.
Grandma, I accept your gift.
It's not really avenging her, Dad. Just the fulfillment of her last wish.
You know, spiritually speaking, Grandma's ashes won't know where they've been thrown from... So, in a way... uh... I'm lying down now.
We can ignite it with these crystal earrings Grandma gave me.
I found them on her nightstand.
What? Bart got a Swiss Army knife.
But she'll live on forever in what you did today.
Yay, Bart!
That's not fair -- Bart was great.
Hey Krusty, you're making a huge mistake not hiring my brother. Why don't you hire them both? It won't cost you anything -- you could call Bart an intern.
In fact, the intern thing could open up a whole new world of free labor for you! Did you know the Discovery Channel doesn't have a single paid employee?
To make Bart a Krusketeer?
Wha... but...
So do a global change?
I'll never last here.
Here you go, Krusty.
Mitzi Gaynor?
Krusty Klovnen Baby Visker?
Yo ho ho and a bottle of fun!
My job: making you look good.
Long John Seltzer!
I don't know, I guess he forgot, but people seemed to like me last week.
Oh, well, it's one thing to fill in for a monkey. But a comedy legend? I wouldn't dream of it.
Okay, I'll do the monologue.
So the centipede says: "I'm goin'! I'm goin'! ...I'm just puttin' on my shoes!"
Thank you, folks -- you've been a great audience.
I'm gonna keep this forever!
Yeah, sure, Mel. Let me just wave one more goodbye to my fans.
Oh no, the Northern Irish are also having a parade!
Well, I do owe you everything... make it quick.
I don't recognize any of them.
Melvin van Horne... Sideshow Mel?! It's you! How could this happen to you... to all these wonderful performers?
I need to get out while I still can. Thank you, Mel.
Everyone, wait!
Um, there's someone I forgot to thank, and he's here tonight. Krusty, will you come up on stage, please?
Really? So what else is in the news?
I'm trying to set you up for laughs.
It always comes down to trans-substantiation versus con-substantiation.
Stop it! Both of you! You have a common land! A literature! And the sweetest songs on earth! TOORA LOORA LOORA -- TOORA LOORA LIE / HUSH MY LITTLE BABY / HUSH NOW DON'T YOU CRY
TOORA LOORA LOORA
TOORA LOORA LIE
Hey, what are those boxes in the back?
See ya!
What'd you get for me?
Dad, is this from a meth lab?
This is evidence.
Because you love the taste of my imaginary tea.
Here's an imaginary cell phone.
And I'm never gonna go to Machu Picchu. In this family, you get used to disappointments.
What are you two doing in the laundry room?
Dad, do laundry.
Tracking software? You're spying on Bart!
Bart! There's something I need to tell you! Mom and Dad have been--
It's me, you idiot.
Mom and Dad are spying on you. There's a tracking chip in your cell phone!
I know! It's a complete violation of your rights. Not to mention--
Something about this just doesn't seem right.
I think we're following you. What's your species, little guy?
Ooh, you're a scarlet tanager. You've been flying south, because you're migrating to... Machu Picchu, Peru!
Well, I could tell Mom and Dad the chip is in the bird and hope they take me to Machu Picchu another time, or...
Mom! Dad! Bart's on the move!
You guys look exhausted. Maybe you oughta rest for a while.
Where's Maggie?
Mom! Bart's flicking boogers on me!
That was an odd thing for Bart to say.
My family's here!
Bart, what are you doing?
Huh.
Okay, listen, you. I don't know who you are or what you've done with the real Bart. But... God help me, I want him back.
The real Bart would've thrown me out the window.
You're just digging yourself even deeper.
Mom, "Bart" has something to tell you.
Boy, Aspen sure is ritzy. Even the winos look better.
There's Bart!
Mom, you said all hitchhikers were drug-crazed thrill seekers.
They're worse than wal-king!
I'll take ten bucks no-ow.
We won, he's asleep!
Why can't you just admit we're lost?
Just ask those guys for directions.
Excuse me, boys! My brother is lost, and kind of a jerk. If he'd brought a map of the grounds as I suggested, then we would--
Oh, Bart. Don't say things you can't take back.
Oh great. Now you woke the baby.
My God, Bart, what happened to us?
It's not a pedal boat. It's a pedal car that Bart drove into the river. Because he knows a shortcut that's not on the map.
If it's your shortcut, I'll be high and dry.
It's true! He's not bluffing!
Ow.
What are we, a piano bar?
I guess.
Um... I think it's... we don't have one.
Not anymore!
Maybe you could use some help.
: FDR's middle name... "DELANO." "Oxidized surface"... Well that's "RUSTY." "Bartenders serve them 'dirty'"...
No, "MARTINIS".
One more word!
"Singer of Yentl", thirteen letters... um...
I've got it! "ISAAC BASHEVIS!"
Now gimme my license! Give everyone their license!
Bart, I've fallen in love with crosswords!
FRUIT LOOPS? That's the answer to thirty-eight down: "toucan's delight!"
COCOA! "Ice rink drink!"
LOSIN' IT! "Risqué '80s teen flick!"
"EYE CARE!" "Optician's concern." Oh, thanks for your help, Bart! "BART?" "San Francisco people mover!"
Guess what, Mom? I'm a cruciverbalist!
Probably, but a cruciverbalist is a fan of crossword puzzles -- which I am!
Grampa, everyone knows that the only real test of skill is the New York Times puzzle, edited by Will Shortz!
Okay, back to the real world.
Isn't it beautiful?
I... I made them into a crossword.
Bald Man's Basketball League?
Citywide crossword tournament!
Ooh, thank you!
Cruciverbalists from far and wide have gathered here for a no-holds-barred test of skill.
No, none.
I win!
Dad, I could actually win this thing!
My only fear is, I always sabotage myself when I'm on the verge of happiness.
In my young life I've seen that every time I'm about to achieve true happiness, some little piece of me says "you don't deserve this." And another little piece says "I agree."
With my luck, I bet it will. It's practically a sure thing.
Wish me luck.
Oh, that's so sad!
Hey, there are no lenses in these glasses...
I blew it again.
And there's something different about him.
He bought new shoelaces. With fancy metal tips!
Dad? Did you come into some money we don't know about?
You got highlights in your hair!
And your car antenna has been straightened and re-balled.
What's goin' on?
No, I'm not mad.
No, I'm not mad.
No, I'm not mad.
You stopped being my Daddy as soon as you bet against me! All I have now is a mom, which is why I'm taking her maiden name! From now on, I'm...
Lisa Bouvier!
Hey, Bouvier was Jackie Kennedy's maiden name.
Well what did you think her name was before it was Kennedy?
I'm through with crosswords! My innocence died in those four hundred and forty-one little boxes.
A couple hours? I can do the Sunday puzzle in less than one hour!
A couple of hours...
"Last clue: "Loses on purpose". Hmmm... "DIETS!" Oh, Will Shortz, you clever rascal.
And a new record time! Wait a second...
"DUMB DAD SORRY FOR HIS BET." Wow, it's almost as if Dad planted that message. No, it must just be a weird coincidence...but what if it's not? Oh, it must be...or mustn't it not?
Dad, I know this is crazy, but did you plant a message to me in the New York Times crossword puzzle?
New York Times Crossword Editor Will Shortz!
And master puzzle constructor Merl Reagle?!
Well I must admit, I'm kind of touched. "DUMB DAD SORRY FOR HIS BET." Nice.
I didn't?!
Oh, Dad.
And they've already started exploiting the next holiday.
Um... I'm also returning this kitten calendar.
Mom, Dad! Our mall got a Mapple store!
It's so sterile! MyPods... MyPhones... A Brainiac Bar!
I can't afford any of your products, but can I buy some fake white earbuds, so people will think I have a MyPod?
Oh, I'll never get a Mapple anything.
Thank you, Krusty!
I'm a Mapple person!
Sorry.
Yeah.
It was my brother Bart!
I've already downloaded so much incredible music! Check out "Moon Dreams" from Miles Davis' "Birth of the Cool."
Or, check out this MyTunes-exclusive episode of "Itchy and Scratchy."
It's a gift from Mapple!
Oh, such beautiful packaging! I never thought a company could be my soul mate!
Oh, it's my first MyBill. Twelve hundred dollars?! But I only downloaded... twelve hundred and twelve songs!
Um, Mr. Mobbs... I sort of downloaded too many songs onto my MyPod. And I don't have the money to pay for them. And... do you think you could consider a reduced payment plan?
Can't you open your Mapple menu and click on the compassion bar? Oh please?
Would I ever!
Think differently... Think differently... Think differently... Think differently...
Save yourselves!
Huh? Where are the bees?
All the bees are dead!
Willie, I didn't know you were an apiarist.
Dad, we have to do something -- all the bees are dying!
But Dad, bees pollinate flowers.
No bees means no honey...
Bees.
How do we catch her without hurting her?
How long is that?
It's not for long. But until they find a suitable habitat, this beard is the only hope for these bees.
Actually, bees rarely sting when they're in a cluster. They only attack to defend their hive.
Please let me keep them for just a little longer.
Dad, don't eat the bees!
Oh Mom, it's perfect!
Go, live your lives, get off my face!
Oh, I miss them.
You'll always have Bart. Always.
Always.
Ooh, another Grobanite!
Mr. Burns, you can't do this!
There's only one place in town where the bees can survive. And Mr. Burns wants to tear it down. Please, people. You didn't listen to me about the snail darter, you didn't listen to me about the osprey, and you didn't listen to me about the javelina.
Apparently not feisty enough. Future generations will judge us by how we cared for the tiniest creatures. I am not just asking you to save the bees. I am asking you to save your souls.
You don't?
Nay.
I know it's not your fault, Muk Mu. You're a gentle, loving soul.
Mr. Burns took away their sanctuary, and now they aren't strong enough to survive on their own.
I'm going home. Give me the keys to my bike lock.
Give me the keys!
Wow, this must be important, Dad! I've never seen you walk up an incline before.
My bees?
They sound awfully mad. Are they dangerous?
To that new stadium that looks exactly like a hive!
Oh, they've found a home.
You're older. Why don't you do these fun activities?
Do we have any more paints? My orange isn't the orange of that orange.
Lower your expectations, Lisa. Public program, public program...
Um, excuse me, but I think her painting is very imaginative.
Yes, I would. Class, everyone please stop and admire Juliet's painting...
See ya!
So, how come I've never seen you around the Janet L. Muñoz-Robbins Rec Center before?
Kinda. Let's do some Groban.
I need some candy for a first playdate, but I don't want to come on too strong.
Well... if I pick plain she'll think I'm cheap, but if I pick peanut, she may have an allergy. You just killed her, Bart!
What is this, Brooklyn in the fifties? Don't just say stuff.
Finally, a real suggestion!
Hi, Juliet.
I don't know -- it's been so long since I've had a playdate. Not that I couldn't get one if I wanted...
Does it get you into special exhibits?
That's today!
Hey Mom, can Juliet sleep over?
Juliet's father is the world's foremost John Grisham scholar.
Now we need a name for our imaginary kingdom -- I mean, queendom.
Equalia. Where everyone is equal, but we're in charge. I mean, somebody has to be, right?
Gosh. This is all happening so fast. I don't know what to say.
I'd love to!
I have a best friend! You heard me say that, didn't you?
We're still cool though, right?
My best friend is so cool!
Mom, I'm meeting Juliet after school!
We're at the end of chapter four. But we need a grabber, a whammy, a snap-a-roo, some eye mustard... I've got it! How 'bout this? What if Queen Helvetica found a rare two-horned unicorn!
I love your accent. Two-nicorn. You are definitely doing the book on tape.
And Queens Valedictoria and Helvetica hid their beloved two-nicorn from the hungry ogre Homeroni.
I'll go get her!
Juliet? Are you okay?
See who?
Juliet, you're scaring me just a little--
A two-nicorn!
Mom, please don't do that.
Mom, stop! This is our thing, not yours!
It's better if you don't.
I can't see Juliet anymore?! I thought you wanted me to have a best friend.
Well, you can't keep Juliet and me apart! I'll... I'll disobey!
Juliet! What are you doing here?
I'd love to! Oh, but I'm supposed to attend the Model U.N. this weekend. I'm the delegate from Azerbaijan, and I'm threatening a rice tariff!
Okay... best friend.
How did you find this place?
You know what I think killed this place? No one wanted to drive to the middle of the forest for clams.
Juliet, I'm scared.
Equalia is not real!
Yeah.
So the armies of the gnomes and the elves faced off on either side of the hollow, broad axes poised.
A battle to determine the fate of Equalia. But you wouldn't be interested.
Isn't that a little clichéd?
Yes! I mean, yes -- there are dragons everywhere! Green ones, Chinese ones, chubby bald ones...
And so the queens--
Danced the minuet of equality on a gossamer dewdrop.
Looks like. Juliet, I don't want to go to Equalia anymore.
It's a special place, but I need to live in the real world.
Goodbye, Juliet.
Cu-ckoo!
...we have received your manuscript 'The Chronicles of Equalia'...
"...unfortunately, it is not what we're looking for at this time. Thank you for thinking of us."
So you're saying he'll look like you in ten days?
Dad, you ran for Class President?
He's not crying and he's not known for clowning.
Vance Connor...
Homer Simpson...
Vance Connor...
Homer Simpson...
Vance Connor...
Homer Simpson.
Please stop doing that.
Both. Homer Simpson... Vance Connor... Fonzie... Homer Simpson... and the winner is Homer Simpson!
Dad, just because you won a high school election doesn't mean your whole life would have been better.
As a rational skeptic, I find that hard to believe. Also, as a vegetarian, I hope there's not meat in that sauce.
No, that's it.
Aha! So Dad's life would actually have been worse, because he wouldn't have gotten together with Mom, his one true love!
Aha!
So Dad's life would have been the same! He would have married Mom and worked for Mr. Burns. It would have been a push!
Can you keep her quiet?
I was describing beautiful fish, Bart!
I don't know, but he's algaefying.
Why does he think Alfred's friends with Batman?
Yep. In the future, people will look at this and they'll say "whoever he was, he must've mattered."
How 'bout Italian?
Woo-hoo! Test day at last! Now I can show off at a Federal level. Hey Bart, on the practice test yesterday, what did you pick as the best title for the paragraph about "Manifest Destiny?"
Dad, Bart's throwing away his future!
I waaarned you.
How did I do?
What did I get wrong?
Several?! That's more than "a few" and almost "a bunch!"
No, but wait. I aced the Math part, right? Because...
Pride is to "downfall" as "overconfidence" is to...
They're all equally valid! But that can't be. In life everything only has one answer!
This test penalizes guessing.
Well, that's it.
The test is almost over and I haven't done a thing. I've blown my whole future.
Oh well, maybe it'll be more fun to be a regular, average, stay-at-home...
Huh?
Hooray! I'm a brainy outcast again!
Fine, but I wish you'd picked an easier theme than "Super-Jet Dinosaur Fun-Monkeys." What does that even mean?
Did you remember to disconnect it first?
This is so hard because I always thought Mom was the strong one.
FOR HE'S A FABULOUS FLANDERS, WHICH NOBODY CAN DENY!
Okay, everyone squeeze in.
Hey, Dad.
You want a cookie, Dad?
Hm, I wonder if it's theses.
Dad, we've been trapped in the house for days. Can't we play outside?
Right, 'cause I wouldn't want to be gay like my heroes Billie Jean King, Susan Sontag, Sappho of Lesbos, and, I suspect, Peppermint Patty...
There's a lesson here: life is fickle. You should appreciate every... stop kicking, Bart!
This is the lowest we've sunk.
Okay, people, we've hit penumbra. Brace yourself for umbra.
But Mom, you'll miss the eclipse.
We have totality, people!
For years... for years...
Dad! Come in the kitchen! Quick!
Wait, I have an idea! One of us can go undercover as a nun and infiltrate the convent.
Dad, leave -- so I can get into character.
Hello. I'm a poor little sinner who's lost her way. May I join your order?
Can't get enough.
Where's Maggie?
Mother Superior, are those all the babies in our orphanage?
No, I was just thinking you might have some in the back you haven't put out yet.
Well, more of a curious George.
Why would Mother Superior lie to me about not having Maggie? What is going on?
A jewel! Why would nuns want a jewel?
The jewel will lead me to my baby sister? Why are you telling me this?
You mean an increasingly difficult series of challenges to my intellect? That's so cool.
Oh sure.
Hm...
Quaerite Deum in corde et anima. That's Latin... "Deum" is God... and of course "Quaerite" means "seek"... "Seek God with heart and soul."
Heart and Soul...
I FELL IN LOVE WITH YOU / HEART AND SOUL...
A cryptic message! Maybe this will lead me to the gem!
Hmm, what if I read every other word? "One more time, you're hopeless. Try again, numb skull." That's not very nice -- I will try again, but not because the wall told me to. "Turn around. Seek Springfield's biggest man-made ring."
Big ring... big ring...
So many rings! But which one is the key to finding the gem?
Well? Did you get it?
The biggest ring in Springfield...comes from the bell in the Springfield Bell Tower!
Ha! Principal Skinner? Comic Book Guy? What are you doing here?
Oh. Well, I seek it so I can find my sister. How do you know about the gem?
Tell me all you know about the gem.
Does your mother know you're using her minivan?
That's tonight!
Because I cleverly deduced the answer to Springfield's biggest ring. Voila!
Oh my God. I know what the biggest "ring" in "Springfield" is. It's been right in front of us the whole time.
Mr. Burns! What are you doing here?
Look -- there's writing on the "R!"
From this angle they're words!
Great...
Crimes... "Kill" "Holy"... "Sage"...
No, that's not it! A secret message this awkwardly-worded is always an anagram.
So, the anagram spells: "Regally, the rock gem is..."
...Lisa?
Does kissing Milhouse count?
It all adds up. I am the gem that will bring world peace! How brilliant of God to remove my skepticism by making me his chosen one!
Look who's here!
Oh, fine, fine, finish your song. I can be patient -- after all, I am the gem child.
Maggie?
No, no, no -- the solution was "Regally the rock gem is Lisa".
Um... this one?
It's really Maggie, Sherlock. You know, I have to point out that this anagram only works if I get the wrong answer first.
Maggie -- it's true! You are the Gem Child!
Mom! How did you know Maggie was here?
Mom, wait! Maggie is the gem child! She's brought peace to our town! And reports of less road rage in Shelbyville! She has to stay here!
You told me we were gonna pick up trash by the freeway!
Well that sucked! / There's a day we'll never get back! / I was so bored.
I was so bored!
I'll be less stressed! And I'm really freakin' stressed!
Hm. There was a note on the fridge marked "urgent." Funny word: "urgent." "Urrrgent." Urgent.
Sorry we missed your special day, Grampa. We'll definitely go next year.
Dunkilderry is so quaint! It looks like the puzzle at the pediatrician's office.
Well, Ireland is at the forefront of Europe's tech boom.
This broadcast is from 1979.
Don't you mean "pint"?
Fifty-fifty?
"At McEllis Island, returning immigrants who are sick of America are processed by Irish authorities."
Ooh, it must be Bloomsday!
Every June sixteenth, lovers of James Joyce follow the route traveled by Leopold Bloom in the novel "Ulysses."
Pretty much, yeah.
You were born while they were married so legally, no. But in the sense someone calls you one when they're angry, yes.
I think it's romantic. You can pretend you're newlyweds starting a life together.
That's the angry one.
I don't understand. Dad would never miss an open bar with chicken wings. Plus he loves Mom, and us, yada, yada, yada.
Sideshow Bob!
He ruined the wedding -- getting his revenge on us at last!
Sideshow Bob! Drop that knife and give back our Dad!
Fine. But how do you explain this?
Mom! Mom! We know where Dad is!
We know it was you Selma Bouvier.
We don't want your cookies.
Dad, do you have any idea what's gotten into Maggie?
Yes you do.
When you say it, it's not just in your head.
Math, done. Pine cone, collected. Permission slip, signed. Now time for a break -- a little social studies.
What will Springfield be like in fifty years? Let's see what the computer says:
That's horrible. What else?
Oh my God!
It just gets worse and worse.
Oh Ralph, how I envy your optimism. There is no Springfield fifty years in the future! With global warming trapping the CO2 inside our poisonous atmosphere, our super-heated oceans will rise, drowning our lowlands, leaving what's left of humanity baking in deserts that once fed the world!
And in the new Nineveh , darkness falls.
What's therapy gonna do for me when the world is in ashes?
Oh, go ahead -- numb me.
Well, off to school where they'll prepare our little minds for a future we'll never see.
I'm going to Dizzyland!
Hello, Smiley Face. Hello, Smiley Face.
If you don't stop smiling, you're gonna get a kiss!
Bart, in my concurrent adventure, I learned a really important lesson: you can't wallow in despair. Face things as they really are.
Wow, the Truth in Boardwalking Law has really done a number on this place.
Dad, no!
Yeah, sure. It's complimentary.
Cinco.
Dad, I've got the perfect thing.
It's mac and cheese from the school cafeteria. The blandest food known to man.
Tofu cubes... tidy Joes... chili con cottage cheese...
Pecan blandies... cream of steam... You Guess 'Ems...
Old comedy writers who now have to work at our kitchen.
Um, do you mind if I join you?
Baked potato, side salad and a--
Is this seat taken?
Dad, if I join a clique, I'll be the kind of person I hate.
Hmm, well, they are good ones.
Dad, I don't want to hurt people's feelings.
I'm a big girl! I'm a big girl!
One of you said something bad about the other.
I've never been called "fierce" before. "Strident..." "hectoring" has been tossed around...
Confirm.
I'm sorry, Dad. These girls are nice on the surface, but it's hard work staying this shallow. I hope you understand.
No, there's a middle ground.
Not if you use a dimmer switch.
Look at this: Springfield Elementary's rating is so low, it's more than two standard deviations below the norm.
Oh, their school system's the best. Their auditorium and their gym are two different rooms!
I just wish I could go to a school like that -- even for one week. "Tis better to have learned and lost then never to have learned at all."
Mom, that's brilliant! We could go to a school where special doesn't always mean bad! And where the teachers don't have to moonlight as telemarketers.
Look at this place. It's everything I've ever dreamed of: On-campus stables!
Field trips to Europe!
Ooh, a doctorate!
Principal Skinner?
I'm Lisa. One word.
Uh, who's Alaska Nebraska?
I should warn you: by using the term "lame," you're violating the Americans With Disabilities Act.
B plus?!
But I always get A's. At my old school, I got so many A's, the teachers didn't even check my work.
Bart, at this school, I'm not a brain, I'm not popular, I'm not anything!
Hi, Caitlin.
Bart! Your plan worked!
Hi.
Really?
Did you just wink at me?
I didn't think I'd get a fresh start like this till junior high!
L'Ecole, c'est moi!
Even the Ralph of this school speaks French!
Caitlin, hi! Do a reading at your bat mitzvah? A sheynam dank!
Well, if it's sold out, even Alaska Nebraska's best friend couldn't do anything about that. Can't build more seats!
Alaska, we've never met, but everyone thinks I'm your best friend.
Could you?
You have a show?
Look, can you please, please, help a poor little girl who was just trying to fit in? It's what half your songs are about.
That's amazing.
You know, I think those shirts should say "insecurity."
Because if you feel you have to put what you are on your shirt, then I feel sorry for you. Do you feel sorry for me? Guess not.
People, I'm not who you think I am. I'm just a transfer student who wanted to make some friends. Yes, I lied to you, but you only liked me because of a lie. So if you think about it--
Mom! Dad! I have to leave Waverly Hills and never come back!
Please, I just want to go back to a place where I'm ostracized for being me, not for who I pretend to be.
Mom, I'm glad you brought me here, but isn't it more important for a woman to be smart and powerful than beautiful?
Please don't say a man.
Thank you, but I know a story of a dangerous obsession with female beauty. It's called "Snow White and the Seven..."
Excuse me, but Snow White is a fairytale from hundreds of years ago. No one owns that.
Yes. But they're my own original creation.
There's Crabby...Drunky...Hungry!
...Greedy!
...Lenny!
...and Doc...tor Hibbert.
Little did they know, their lives are about to be changed forever by a wicked queen.
So Snow White slept and waited for her prince to come... but he never did.
Because a woman shouldn't have to depend on a man. Snow White was brought back to life, by a lady doctor.
Well, she couldn't indulge in strenuous activities like handball, but otherwise she was fine.
Looks like Maggie wants a story too.
Mom, isn't that book the bible of right-wing losers?
Well, I qualified for the National Math Bee--
Although there were a few holes in the story.
I thought you were studying the Lincoln-Douglas debates?
No one even plays four-square anymore -- they just gossip.
I dunno -- chasing ducks? Buried alive? He'll be missed. Let's move. I've gotta collect pine cones.
Just follow the "dies," Mom.
Someone's gotta stop her from going through with this fight. This goes against every feminist bone in my body, but Dad, can't you control your woman?
Mom, I came here to tell you it's not too late to back out.
There must be a better way.
Dad, I keep telling you, that won't work.
Hey Bart, did you know that's a haiku?
Two drunk guys were fighting outside and everyone went to watch.
Yeah?
You're on.
Congratulations, Hubert. Or should I congratulate your tutor: Amelia, at the Homework Factory! Your victory is tainted! Asterisk! Asterisk!
Asterisk! Asterisk! Asterisk!
Stupid Miss Hoover.
I don't want to talk about it.
I do.
Interesting. With no obvious motive, no one would suspect us.
Thanks... but I'll pass.
Listen, you're a persistent fellow, but I--
I'm in.
Bart, have you established your alibi?
And people will remember you were there?
Crisscross.
You should've seen the look on Krabappel's face!
You killed her?
I never said "kill!"
Well, I didn't kill Mrs. Krabappel!
Yeah, ding-dong-ditch!
You're a monster!
That's it? Just t.p. her?
I think I'm gonna be sick.
Bart?!
Sorry Bart, I couldn't do it! There's got to be another way.
What if I gave you homework help? I won't give you the answers, but I'll give you the tools to find the answers yourself.
Why would Willie do that?
All right, Bart... I guess I have no choice. I have to kill... you!
It's pronounced "D.N.A.," you idiot. And we are not the same -- I am not a murderer, and I never will be!
It was an accident, I swear!
Cows eating cows?! That's an abomination!
Dad, no! That's the last book in the world!
Yes, and-- Oh, go ahead.
Oh my God. If Bart could eat the burger and survive, then maybe he can yield the key to an anti-muncher vaccine!
Apu, how did you survive?
Oh, did the chosen one hurt his chosen little noggin?
Dad, are you becoming a muncher?
Time has passed. Children play in the streets. At night, there is music and laughter.
And all we had to do was let Bart take a bath in our food.
Sorry -- I have a tea party at Janey's.
Well, there's only one game we can play in the car over and over and over again. "Bonk It."
Possum?!
So, I'll hide and you guys count to a hundred.
This is the best hiding place. They'll never find me.
I'm here! Come find me! Olly-olly-oxen-free! Olly-olly-oxen-free!
Why did I do Poetry Club instead of Girl Scouts? Why did I do Poetry Club instead of Girl Scouts?
You're gonna be so embarrassed. There are two other people at this party dressed just like you.
My name's Lisa and I was playing hide and seek when I met you ladies. Please don't hurt me.
Uh-huh, what's an esbat?
You mean... witches?
Well I'm glad you're not "witches." Wouldn't want you to "cast a spell" on me.
Sure they do. If magic was real, I'd use it to get out of my pipe cleaner art project that's due tomorrow.
Dad! Over here!
I have one minute to avoid my first late assignment ever. The pipe cleaner fur is coming off on my hands!
What happened to Miss Hoover?
Spell? Those girls couldn't have made her sick... or could they?
Did you girls make Miss Hoover sick?
Listen, not that I've lost my skepticism, but I am interested in learning more about Wiccans. Are you a minority group as defined by Ivy League admissions?
What else ya got?
I worship nature!
Well, it is an honor to be asked. But I never make a final decision in the middle of a forest at night.
Um, it's the wiccan home page.
I'm thinking of joining.
Hey, every witch needs a familiar...
I'm gonna put a spell on you! Yes I am, my tuna-breath familiar.
Zap! Zap! Zap! Zap! Zap! Zap! I curse you, Hell's Kitten!
With perfect faith and perfect love.
They're not evil! They believe in friendship and respecting the earth... and they made me feel like I belonged.
Don't dip those Wiccans!
They didn't blind anyone -- I have proof!
When my father was attending the moonshine competition last Saturday...
You heard sirens, which you thought were the police coming to arrest you. To ditch their stills...the moonshiners pushed them down a hill. The moonshine landed in a river, temporarily blinding anyone or anything that drank it.
That river led to the reservoir -- which made anyone who drank the town's tap water also go temporarily blind.
No, thank you. I've been rational but nerdy my whole life. But these past few weeks, you girls made me feel cool. Cool! Me! Lisa Simpson!
Change it! Change it!
You just increased the volume!
Global warming can cause weather at both extremes -- hot and cold.
Really? Really? Uh-huh, all right.
When Maggie's nightlight goes out, her onesie becomes a funsie. This announcer has never seen diapers so dapper!
What do you want?
Fine. Get this on in two minutes, lose the attitude, and for God's sake, suck in that pooch.
Go, go, go!
And now, making his debut on the catwalk... Bartholomew!
Belt is by Twizzler, vest courtesy of Nelson, tights are by Hello Kitty...
Because you envy us. Maggie and I share the deepest bond there is: sisterhood.
We'll be closer than best friends for the rest of our lives. But you'll never know what that's like, because you won't ever have a brother.
"Off with their heads!" said the Red Queen. Now, pull the tab.
More... more...
More...
You can have mine, but he's kind of an idiot.
Two brothers? Bart, who is this kid?
Bart, you have to take him back!
Hello, Bart.
You left a trail of lost winter clothes.
No, I'm gonna convince you to turn yourselves in.
Never, huh? What are you gonna eat?
Better change your mind quick, Bart. A snow plow's coming to seal us in.
And, Bart, maybe Charlie can't be your little brother, but you'll always be a big brother to me.
Oh no! You took too long to make an obvious decision!
Oh, gross, gross, gross, gross.
I wish I weren't.
I wanna do that!
Slimu looks kind of uncomfortable.
...Clark Gable owes me a book. And he never paid me for the shoeshine. But his big blue eyes could melt the butter you kept in your pocket for lunch. Lunch butter we called it.
Bart!
If you're not gonna take care of him right, then give him to me.
I do! It enrages me!
I'm a freakin' Buddhist! A Buddhist!
Larry, please don't judge our whole family by Bart. He's the black sheep. Not that black sheep are in any way inferior to white sheep. I do not judge wool by its color -- only by how itchy it is. Ooh, look! Jazz!
Larry, what sub-genre of jazz do you like? Fusion? Neo-bop?
Afro-Cuban?
Larry!
Gotcha!
Larry? Larry? Larry? Larryyyy?!
He's in here. Safe and sound. Let me just staple that bag for you.
What do you care? You don't even like him.
Um... what if someone were to lose Larry?
Where'd you get this rope?
Bart, I'm losing my grip!
What will that do?
Chief, my brother fell in the storm drain!
Fine. What's their number?
What about Bart?
So Grampa, you really saved Dad's life?
Me! Me! Me! Me! Me!
I agree it's cliché, but she does have a certain-- Unicorn!
Just give me this!
Don't forget the unicorn!
Princess Penelope! Sign mine! Sign mine!
I AM HER / SHE IS ME / I'M JUST LIKE / PENELOPE...
IT'S STILL ON / IN MY HEAD / IT WILL BE THERE TILL I'M DEAD...
Whether she's competing in equestrian events at the 1976 Olympics or spending her summers at Holyrood Palace, Princess Anne is truly a world leader.
You guys will be the hit of cousin Valerie's wedding reception!
Why is everyone staring at static?
Maybe I should go out and get you guys a converter.
Wow! How long has the TV been out?
All right, it's all hooked up.
I've never seen Mr. Burns this happy.
Just think what that game could do for Grampa and his friends!
This isn't normal TV. It's a videogame that encourages activity and exercise!
Please, at least try the tennis game.
You use the wand like a tennis racket to hit an invisible ball.
Why is the TV back on? What happened to the videogame?
Why would you put it in the dishwasher?
You ruined it on purpose. You want the old folks to be zombies -- because it makes your jobs easier!
Well, I agree it's not the most pleasant job in the world, but...
Well, you still should have let them have their fun!
Yeah. Or is it just a cover story for a grownup thing we're not allowed to know about?
Excuse me? I think this fell off your hat.
Thank you!
Come on. They're just pins.
But he does look lonely all by himself...
One Labatty, please.
All Dad needs to do is put his stone inside that circle and they win.
Oh my God! Dad threw too hard!
Yay!
Sorry, but I was planning to stop by the Olympic Pin Center to fill in a few small gaps in my collection. Y'know, just to get me through the day.
Oh my gosh. It's the mascot from the 1924 games in Chamonix!
I must have him!
Um... Can I have it on account? On account of I want it? You've heard that one, huh?
My pearls? These were a gift from my Mom, when I could first read at a twelfth grade level.
Just take 'em.
I saw you grooving to the beat! You gotta pay for that!
Nothing's going on. Just sharing my music with the good people of Vancouver.
A dime? What do you think I am -- a pay phone from nineteen eighty?!
I'm fine! Fine, fine, fine, fine, fine, fine...
There is no dress. It's just pins! Help me!
What is this, tough love?
It's not that easy, Bart. I... traded away my pearls! Without them, I'm just a big Maggie!
Ooh, family trees -- the charts representing genealogical relationships in a branching structure!
I can't wait to see what noble branches lie in the Simpson family foliage!
No, this can't be right.
They're all horrible!
There must have been some good ancestors -- Grampa, don't you know any?
I won't give up. I have to know that somewhere in the muck and the mire and the Pittsburgh Poisoners, this family had a noble spark. And I will find it, even if I have to go back to Adam and Eve.
Well, are you gonna help me or what?
Thank you.
Family records for a school project on genealogical--
...Dad's idea pad...
Bicentennial issue of Reader's Digest...
Old ad for Buzz Cola...
So dusty.
The Diary Of Eliza Simpson?
This entry's dated April 14th, 1860.
"Dearest Diary, today I am the happiest girl in Springfield--"
"...because tomorrow, I shall get my very first slave."
I can't believe we're descended from slave owners!
"Saturday, April 14, 1860. Dear Diary, I must be brief, for tonight is the grand ball..."
That's all there is -- the rest of the diary has turned to dust!
Yes!
She wasn't a slave owner! Our family was on the Underground Railroad!
No, the "Underground Railroad" was a bunch of people who helped slaves escape to Canada. There were no actual trains, and it wasn't under ground.
I never thought of that before.
What are you doing? I wanna know what happens next.
But-but-but-but-but...
I must know!
Well I am reading it, and when I'm finished, I'm going to use Eliza's diary for my "Black History Month" presentation!
Listen: "April 20th, 1860. A week ago, I had no idea what the future would bring, which, I guess, is always true of everyone all the time. Anyway, last Saturday night, I went to Colonel Burns's ball..."
Run!
I'll never know if Eliza got Virgil safely to freedom!
To the reference desk!
That's Eliza's mother!
Martha, you are the best.
Please don't make those recipes.
They made it back to the house?! How?!
Wait. All that was in the recipe?
So they did the right thing -- my quest is fulfilled! Our family has heroes!
Our family has heroes!
My Black History Month presentation is called "The Simpsons: The First Family of Freedom."
No, no, no, not now! Quit! Quit! No, don't quit the program, just the update, ya stupid--
Computers, right? Our story begins with a spunky little spitfire named Eliza Simpson.
The year was 1860, and the Underground Railroad was...
...And though Hiram, Mabel, and Eliza are no longer among us, their truth goes marching on. Thank you.
What are you talking about?
No! You lie! Eliza Simpson can't be a coward! She's the only decent ancestor I have.
But I need to prove that my ancestor couldn't have backed down to Colonel Burns!
Huh?
There's no noble Simpson.
You were right, Dad. I should have quit while I was ahead, instead of learning the horrible truth about our family and Virgil.
What are you talking about? Is there something you know about Virgil that you haven't told us?
Yes! I'm thrilled! We've regained our family honor and we're one-sixty-fourth black!
That's why my jazz is so smooth!
Grampa, why'd you try to keep us from finding this out?
Racists?
Now what are you up to?
Hi. Now what are you up to?
Just close your eyes and think of Milhouse.
How did you--
Well, sometimes people who agree on most things have one issue that they disagree strongly about. In politics it's called a "wedge issue" -- like illegal immigration or gay marriage.
You would mess up Mom and Dad's marriage just to get out of doing some homework?
Fractions aren't that hard, you just have to find a common denominator. For example: one half plus one third equals...
You'll need to know fractions to make that explosion!
Congratulations. You're officially a sociopath.
Thanks, Dad. But you're so loud it's hurting my ears.
Life stinks, huh?
Mom said she was tipped off by a note from me. But you know something? I didn't write this note.
You wanted to get caught.
Elementary, my dear Simpson.
Leave it to you to misspell a word you see first thing every morning. But don't worry. Your secret's safe with me. As far as Mom and Dad know, you're just a soulless little psycho.
Anytime.
Dad, a meter is three inches longer than a yard, which is thirty-six inches, so fifty divided by thirty-nine times thirty-six, equals--
An F?! Okay, this is the time when I always wake up.
Come on, alarm clock -- get me out of this!
No it's not, dream-Hoover! And as long as I'm asleep, I'm gonna have some fun. I can fly! Wheeee!
This isn't a dream. I really did fail.
An F. An F! I hope Harvard never finds out about this.
Uh-oh, looks like I'm in more trouble. Born to be bad.
I'm just advanced! You can catch up!
"Dear fellow organic gardening enthusiasts: I'm afraid I am too sad to post my list of garden-friendly snails. Yet again I have seen the bitter truth of how difficult it is to be smart and accepted." "With mulch love, Lisa Simpson." Mulch love, that's cute.
Somebody posted a comment?
"Don't stop achieving just yet, Lisa. You are not alone -- Flotus-one." "Flotus-one?" Who could that be?
Flotus1 is "First Lady Of The United States... one!"
And now you're the most elegant and popular woman in the world!
Schnell! Schnell!
Mr. Flanders invited us to Israel. I think he wants to get Dad into Heaven.
The man hates pants.
Krusty, I've been meaning to ask, what are you doing on this tour?
Yes, it is fitting.
Jews don't believe in Hell.
Dad, are you okay?
Ah yes, "Jerusalem Syndrome." The name given to religious delusions or psychoses that occur when people visit Jerusalem.
Hmm... Dad said he was going to "unite all faiths." And only one site is sacred to Muslims, Christians and Jews -- The Dome of the Rock!
Krav maga!
No, the ants are the farmers.
Nothing! Look, do you want to do it or not?
Fine.
Such an intricate formicarium! I'm the proudest myrmecologist on the block.
Hey, they're not eating.
Bart! That Pop Tart wasn't locally farmed or sourced!
Well, I'm so glad I'm not your mom.
Ew! Ew! Ew! I'll never get that image out of my head!
If they're anybody's children they're mine!
Quick, we've got to get them back!
There's only one ant left!
Well, I will never forgive you, Bart.
That only angers me more.
You're not going anywhere near Annie.
As in "Little Orphan."
Bart, she's only carrying thirty times her weight. Our girl is slowing down.
It's the natural order of things. I'm afraid she's got another two, maybe three days, tops.
Ants have six legs, Bart.
You're just a tiny ant, but you were strong enough to pull my brother and me together. Now go and be free.
/ What's going on?
Dad, while I agree reducing consumption is great, it's hard to make permanent changes in your lifestyle.
No... I am suggesting you consider cheaper, alternate sources of energy.
Dad! I found what you're looking for!
Dad, you are leading the way in clean energy.
Dad, all it means is we're providing power to the electric company.
Dad, if we're really off the grid, then we won't get power when the air is still.
But Dad, it defeats the purpose if you're powering our windmill with the electricity from Flanders.
Bart, please! I'm trying to hear Dr. House's third incorrect diagnosis before his final correct diagnosis!
We're gonna go check out the wind damage!
Oh my God...
A beached whale.
Bart, can you believe that something so mighty has been rendered so powerless?
She's such a beautiful shade of blue... I'm going to call you Bluella the Whale."
C'mon, everybody! A whale needs help!
Whales are mammals like us! They're sensitive and deeply intelligent!
I'm gonna get real help. Just try to keep her wet.
Hey, Mom... Dad... there's a whale on the beach... You've gotta help me get her back in the ocean!
Hurry, Dad, hurry!
But I don't know how to drive.
A little.
It's hard to believe anyone in that contest can be considered smart.
I'll catch up with you guys in a little bit.
You know, when I'm sad, I read something beautiful and true: poetry.
No, no, you'll like it. It's about the ocean.
"The world below the brine / Forests at the bottom of the sea / the Branches and leaves... / Sea-lettuce, vast lichens...
Girl, you're going home! You're going home!
Goodbye, Bluella! Send me a post card from Tierra Del Fuego!
Bye! Goodbye!
Bluella?
Oh no.
She doesn't like lying on the beach! She likes being in the ocean!
Maybe I should just be alone a little bit.
Bluella?
No. I'm not gonna be disappointed again.
Ew! Ew! Ew! Ew! Ew!
They must be Bluella's children! Hello, whale calves! Your mother lives on through you!
Huh?
Run! I mean, swim! I mean .
Those baby whales are doomed, just like their mom. I guess it's just nature's way.
Dad? Where did you get that boat?
Dad, no!
They're right. If the only way to save the whales is to kill another innocent creature, I can't let you do it.
Dad! The sharks must think you're a baby whale!
It's the baby whales' dad!
Thanks for not letting me give up, Dad.
Do you think they'll be okay?
Hey!
That's not true! First of all, Milhouse fell because you tripped him. Secondly, "spaz" is short for "spastic diplegic," someone who suffers from a serious medical condition. Thirdly, your "haw haw," through overuse, has lost its power.
Well, I am one: flattered and two: intrigued. Lisa Simpson.
I didn't know we had a debate team.
...and that is why hybrid car buyers should be given rebates paid for by taxes on hamburgers.
Initially yes, but--
Currently. However, solar and wind are...
Blondie?
First of all, my father no longer has any functioning credit cards. Secondly, how dare you refer--
I... I...
Excuse me! Is this what the framers of the constitution would want?
How many personal freedoms are we willing to give up in the name of security?
Again with the blonde! Why in the world would the color of the hair on someone's head have anything to do with the intelligence within?
I ha--
Sally Circle was eating donuts and Ovaltine when her father came in with terrible news.
Everyone was mean to Sally. She was too well-rounded. She felt cornered. They wouldn't let her play four-square or invite her to the box social.
The end.
That's a rather unambitious book.
You're blond too.
Dye! Dye! DYE!
Dressing in uniforms is a good thing -- if everyone looks the same, it levels the playing field.
It's better to just fit in with the crowd.
Oh, I can't go on! This rebuttal is a sham!
You aren't being persuaded by the content of my argument -- you're being convinced by the color of my hair!
Well guess what, I am not a brunette! I'm a blonde!
We must rid ourselves of these outdated clichés. Not all blondes are dumb! Not all fat people are jolly.
And not all old people are bad drivers!
Dad! That's a dangerous attitude for you to take towards your wife.
When there's cruelty involved, Bart sure knows his history.
Dad, I'm gonna need some help getting this off.
Grandma?!
How shortened?
Another Springfield family moves to Detroit to find a better life.
What's that delicious smell?
Mom, it's so superficial to judge our new neighbor based on his furniture. He drives a hybrid!
He's got koi!
I know where Bob's taking Bart!
Oh, Bart. I am so glad everything's okay.
Mr. Flanders, how did you make these amazing fish?
So that "natural selection" was the origin of this species?
Mr. Szyslak, would you like to buy some band candy?
That doesn't work on me.
I can see that down deep is a decent man.
As an eight-year-old girl in twenty-first century America, I know how it is to feel insecure about your looks. But you've got so much going for you. I'd kill for your sense of smell... you have a nice firm handshake...
And when you wag your tail, it really lights up a room.
Now, let's scoot together.
Mr. Cowell, would you like some band candy?
We're watching the Nobel Prize announcements, live from Stockholm!
Quiet! It's time for the noblest Nobel Prize of all: the Peace Prize.
Isn't this exciting?
Why aren't I going to Oslo? The Nobel Prizes are my freakin' thing! But no -- Bart gets everything because he's the oldest and he's a boy. And Maggie gets what's ever left over because she's the youngest and she's a baby. Meanwhile, I'll just stand and wave to people going to better places.
Ew, no thanks.
I'm just gonna chill out with a little "This American Life."
Mom, this isn't the way home.
Oh I get it. They go to Oslo, we get some ice cream.
Oh my God! Mom! Thank you! I just need my...
Victory for the middle child!
Hello? Hello?
Huh?
ARTS ARTS ARTS EDUCATION...
I can hear you.
Do you guys always do that?
Sing what you just said, then play a little guitar riff.
I NEVER KNEW ARTISTS WERE ALL SO AMAZING!
DO YOU THINK THAT I COULD BE AN ARTIST IN THE CITY?
I finally found the place I belong.
It can't be Saturday already! Monday was orientation. Tuesday we did mime.
Wednesday we did "Mame."
Thursday we got attacked by bees.
Friday morning Andrew Lloyd Weber and Elaine Stritch helped us make wallets.
Friday evening we performed "Angels In America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes." Part one: Millennium Approaches...
Part two...
That's right! Strike the set, pizza party...
Saturday morning, and then... noooo!
I can't go home. Something happened this week that completely changed me!
No! I fell in love with theater, dance, and song!
Well, the combination of me leaving arts camp and you driving on and off the shoulder has made me a little ill.
Okay, maybe it won't be that bad.
Arts camp was lovely.
But arts camp encouraged us to spread our wings and fly.
How do you cope?
It's just... dinner conversation at arts camp was a bit more stimulating. One night we spoke only in lines from famous poems.
Emily Dickinson.
If you need me, I'll be upstairs saying goodbye to my dreams.
Maggie, your big sister is leaving for a more artistic life. I'll send for you when I'm famous. We'll take the town by storm like the Brontë sisters.
Oh Maggie, don't ever turn two.
I came to share in the esteem that the world bestows on its artists.
Sure is cold in here.
Tomatoes? What kind of artists are you?
Are you saying arts camp was a lie?
WHAT I DON'T GET IS, WHY ALL THE LIES?
It's called "applause."
Mom! Take me home!
Goodbye, guys. I'll try again when I'm older...
Thanks, guys!
I NEVER KNEW ARTISTS WERE ALL SO AMAZING!
DO YOU THINK THAT I COULD BE AN ARTIST IN THE CITY?
Are you sure about that, Grampa?
So I want to honor Grampa by giving my inheritance to charity. But which one?
Ooh, what's this?
Got it!
Let's see, I could help someone in any impoverished area on earth. Bangladesh... Bolivia... East Springfield?!
Nelson?!
I will. I'll take a chance on you, Nelson Muntz.
So Nelson, I see you started a small business.
Well, whoever your mysterious donor is, he, or she, really wants you to succeed.
Ooh, your first customer. Be nice!
Ooh, a message from my small business person!
Hi, Nelson.
No, but there is something I can't hold back any more. I'm your microfinance donor!
Well, I didn't do this for thanks, but if you want to thank me, I can stand here and listen for as long as it takes.
You're quitting school?!
But don't you know that people who don't go to college make three percent less than people who do?
Principal Skinner, I need to convince Nelson to come back to school.
He is. He's paying people eleven dollars an hour to work for him.
Isn't that a Christmas tie?
Oh, I don't know. I thought one of these super-successful people might tell you how important it is to stay in school. Why look, it's Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook!
Mr. Zuckerberg, I'm Lisa, and this is Nelson.
That's great, Mr. Zuckerberg, but I was hoping you could tell us how education was instrumental to your success.
You did?
Well, clearly, you're an exception.
Didn't anybody here stay in school?
There, you see?
I used Grampa's money to try to help someone in need. But it didn't go the way I expected.
Nelson, I just wanted to say that I realize now you can't be anyone else other than who you are, and...
Hi, Nelson.
This is really fun. But we're still just friends, right?
Can I hold your hand... for balance?
Sorry.
Sorry.
Sorry!
There's a car in the parking lot with a Yale sticker on it! It's gotta be you.
I plan to attend an Ivy League school myself. I do have a 4.0 GPA.
Well, that depends.
Um, I'm treasurer of the Jazz Club, and started the school's recycling society.
Uh, that's it.
But I'm only in second grade.
Thrust! Parry! Dodge! Poke!
C'mon, Maggie. I need to get good at fencing so I can put it on my resume and get into Yale. Don't be scared. I won't hurt my widdle sister.
Anything that's the something of the something isn't really the anything of anything!
It's me!
What, you can't stand the idea of a girl coaching a boys' baseball team?
Hey, there have been plenty of female managers in baseball! Connie Mack, Sandy Alomar, Terry Francona, Pinky Higgins--
Really?... They sound like... I mean... well, the thing...
Okay, bottom line: I need an extra-curricular activity, and no one else will coach you loveable losers.
Look, if you want to play liability-insured baseball, I'm your only shot.
Thanks. You can be the free safety.
I mean the point guard.
I'm gonna do a little research.
Don't call me honey pie.
We're brother and sister.
Hey, Dad.
Fine. I was hoping you and your friends could tell me something about baseball strategy.
Does anyone here actually know anything about baseball?
Wow, I'm surprised you guys know so much about a sport.
Huh?
Thanks, guys.
Everyone shift towards right!
Okay, everyone study two-out situations, count management, and I'll be back with some gluten-free crackers.
Bart, this guy's walked the last two batters, and if he walks you, we win the game. Don't swing at anything!
Hot streaks are a statistical illusion.
Well, there's a ninety-seven percent chance I'm not, so do what I say.
Don't swing.
You disobeyed your manager!
Here's what: you're off the team! Get him outta here, boys.
C'mon, guys. I had to get rid of Bart.
That dinger was a fluke! Not that I have to defend myself to you. Managers manage and players play.
I don't know... yes.
...So because of your on-base percentage, Nelson, you're the new leadoff hitter. Questions?
He's not! He thought he was better than the laws of probability. Anyone else think he's better than the laws of probability?
Well, you're not!
Look, Dad! "Players and Coaches' Entrance!"
I need you! Ralph can't play 'cause he's too juiced.
What am I gonna do? I need a pinch-runner with speed!
Bart!
Now get out there a kick a field goal! Kidding!
No! No, don't steal!
Okay, okay, he's stolen third. But surely that's the limit of his cockiness...
No! The computer says it's statistically impossible!
Stealing home. It's so impossible. It's against every sensible instinct... it's, it's...
It's the most exciting play in baseball! Go, Bart!
No. But you did do something. You made me love baseball. Not as a collection of numbers, but as an unpredictable, passionate game beaten in excitement only by every other sport.
Maybe it was, but according to my calculations, you're a great brother fifty-one percent of the time.
Can you put a number on it?
Awww...
Well, my Latin's a little rusty, but I think to get everything back in its box, you have to finish the game.
You're gonna have to deal with more nonsense like that.
It's something you've never seen: they're smitten.
Well, he is cute. But I'm sure a boy like him would never say hello to me.
I love your pallor.
How'd you do that?
They're just dots in circles.
You're a vampire! I should be scared, but I'm not.
Edmund's almost here, so PLEASE nobody be themselves!
I know just how you feel!
Bite me now, Edmund -- and we'll both be vampires!
Sir, I'm not trying to take your son away from you. I plan to be a part of your rich culture, and organize media-friendly events to help combat all the unfair vampire stereotypes.
Eight forever? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! I can't spend eternity using kid scissors. They barely cut anything!
Uh, Dad? They turned you into a vampire.
Dad, I think Maggie's just sad 'cause her set is missing "Baby Must-Have."
Didn't there used to be more Texxon stations?
Someday when I'm a grownup, maybe I'll go back and look fondly at our house.
Wow, Mom -- you got first place in the science fair!
Mom, these grades are amazing! Just as good as mine!
Principal Skinner? Quick question. Is it true my Mom was a great student?
Well... of course that would be great. But I see myself making an impact... outside the home.
Maggie, something happened to Mom and I'm gonna find out what and when.
Mom's looking good through elementary school... ninth grade, tenth grade, still ridin' the A-Train... Then suddenly, when she was a high school senior BLAM!
What could've happened?
Dad, can I talk to you for a second?
Well, um, I was looking through Mom's old schoolwork, and I noticed her grades went down when she started going out with you.
No offense Dad, but no boy is gonna distract me from my dreams.
No! That's not gonna happen to me! I'm gonna make sure nothing distracts me ever!
Okay, I've gotten rid of all of my distractions, diversions, hobbies and... Oh my God!
Are you a distraction, or a higher calling? All right, let's see. How many jazz musicians led long and happy lives? There's, um...
Mom, could you keep it down a little? I'm trying to study.
Mom, is something wrong?
Mom, I admire everything you do--
It's plenty good! It's great! It's just... not for me.
What kind of kiss did you get?
Ice cold.
Oh yeah?
The seven of clubs.
What's the point of getting rid of all the distractions at home, if I have to do my learning here?
Willie!
Do you have to wax this floor now?
Should I get the nurse?
Dad was right -- I might as well give up.
Cloisters Academy?! That bus could pick me up any day of the week!
Lord Buddha, I know I'm not supposed to want stuff, but c'mon.
Mom, Dad! Please, can I go here? I'll study so hard I'll make the old me look like Bart.
Mom, please don't.
I have a future! Thank you, Mom!
I'm so exci--
An academy! I'm attending an academy!
I'm sorry, I don't really play.
Count me in!
Well, I am so happy to be in your class.
Did you get that the pony was actually me?
Self-published?
That school is so great! Teachers teach so much better when they're paid in money, and not in chickens. Is Mom gonna come up and say goodnight?
Mom?
Mom?
I see what happened. There was no scholarship. They said I could attend if you did all their laundry. I can't live with that knowledge while trying to get more knowledge.
Mom... I don't want to go to that school.
Because, it's too elitist. Everyone's parents are in "the business."
I don't know! They won't tell me! And besides... you were willing to do all this just so I would be happy! Mom, I'd be honored if I turned out like you.
Mr. Burns? Where's he going?
Now they're dancing on his grave!
Hm, apparently Mr. Burns is in a state of shock from the trauma he underwent.
People of Springfield, to quote Shakespeare, "the quality of mercy is not strained..."
You know, it takes a lot for an eight-year-old to stand up in front of the whole town.
We're called "little people" and I'm not one.
People of Springfield, as a nerd, I understand your desire for revenge, but this sweet, harmless man is not the same remorseless monster who tormented us all.
What did you do with him?
Dad, Mr. Burns is here for you again.
A little tired of revenge, are we?
All right. Mr. Burns, I'm gonna show you that not all of us in this town are vindictive and cruel.
Not today.
I thought after all you went through, you just might want to spend an hour in a place where you felt at home.
Actually, sir, the man who lived here didn't have many friends. But you're a better person than he ever was.
Yes, technically it's you. But like I said, people change and--
Hey, there's a number on him. What is it?
Thank God your son can't see the way you're behaving.
You said it was Boston.
Like those chairs in the music room?
Huh. It's a pigeon.
The poor guy hurt his wing.
Or, more likely, the phone number of the bird's owner.
Yes, I believe I have your pigeon, "Raymond Bird," and I need to know how to return him to you.
Yes, he could fly home, except that he has a broken wing. Perhaps you and your sarcasm could come to Springfield and retrieve him.
Looks like you're gonna have to take care of him, Bart.
No, no... Listen, don't tell anyone, but... I can't stand pigeons! They're like rats with wings!
Oh... Okay, maybe he's not so bad.
No! No! No! Get off! Get off! Get off!
Mom, it's just Maggie.
Mom, why am I so repulsed by pigeons? It doesn't make any sense.
I'm a member of People for the Ethical Treatment of Amoebas, The League of Women Vultures, the N-double-A-C-Porcupines, Kids for Squids, the A.C.L. Unicorns, Clamnesty International and, uh... well, those are the best ones.
Really?
I'll tell you later.
It's amazing how I can feel sorry for you and hate you at the same time. I'm sure there's a German word for it.
You're gonna put him down?
This is where we're ditching the dog?
Not really.
You do for me.
Marking a crime scene. To celebrate a ancient pagan ritual, this tree was cut down and tarted up like a dime-a-dance floozy.
You mean your gingerbread McMansion.
So you're the brown nosed reindeer that's jingled all the way to the top.
Oh, I know what you're after. The toy you never got.
Oh really? Well let me ask you this, how many kids bring a gun to meet Santa?
Security!
Why can't they leave a poor tree in the woods where it belongs?
Can it really be Christmas when one of our parents is facing the German army?
Don't dare bring that thing in here!
Don't worry about that. I love meat and I always will.
Mmm-mm, that is some sweet pig meat. But as for Christmas trees... I used to love them -- until last year, when I went tree shopping with Mom...
So I never want to see another Christmas tree... until Mom comes back, safe and sound.
See? Every time we get a tree, Mom disappears!
... ... ...
Oh no! This is where they took Mom from me!
It's a sign. Mom's okay! Thank you.
Yes, but then I learned that there's always hope. Someday this war will be over. Someday our Mom will be back.
But until then this tree will stand for everything Mom believes in: home, family and constantly sweeping up needles.
O TANNENBAUM, O TANNENBAUM...
DU GRUNST NICHT NUR ZUR SOMMERZEIT, /
NEIN AUCH IM WINTER, WENN ES SCHNEIT...
This is the last time I bring these two to bed at the same time.
Ms. Stewart, I made a star for the tree out of discarded water bottles!
I'll go outside and make snow angels.
Okay.
Merry Christmas, Mom!
IT'S BEGINNING TO LOOK A LOT LIKE BREAKFAST...
...EVERYWHERE YOU GO
Did you get a good house-sitter?
Aw, poor baby.
Come on, Bart. Afraid of a little apple juice?
Dad's underwear!
Happy New Year!
Why are you hung over? I didn't see you drink last night.
Your four eyes saw a lot today, Milhouse. What's the skinny?
Bart?
We've got to stop Mom from going out with those women.
Could we hurry this up? I am really uncomfortable being a girl in this store.
Hey, does Dad know you and the cool moms broke up?
Sorry you broke up with your friends, Mom.
Come on, pretend he meant something to you.
I'm busy.
Fine. Just get in here.
You could deliver newspapers.
Maybe if you buckle down and get good grades, dad will give you money.
I've been doing the family's books for years. I take what I need.
Something wrong, Bart?
I love it. I know I use the word "empowering" a lot, but this time it really is that.
Oh my God, me too!
I can't take it. I'm just going to draw a hairline on.
Help! My macaroni Marconi!
Huh. Let's see what cousin Jessica's up to.
You can't listen to those women, Mom. Change threatens them. They didn't like it when the Springfield Shopper started printing in color.
Mom, your choice to go back to blue is so empowering.
Well, as a feminist, virtually anything a woman does is empowering.
No. It's oddly dehumanizing.
The most comfortable ergonomic chair there is.
'Angry Dad: The Movie.' Angry Dad addresses the family from the top of the stairs."
Angry Dad slips and crashes down the stairs.
No Dad, don't say "pained noises," you make pained noises.
You know, your movie's not all bad. If you cut out the stuff that didn't work, it would make a great short film.
Many great directors, like Wes Anderson, Frank Tashlin, and Tim Burton started with short films.
Taylor Hackford.
The creative team from Mixar! Pardon me. I've seen all of your movies except "Cars," and I can't believe my brother is in the same category as the digital Rembrandts of my generation!
I believe it's from Lamps Plus.
Good luck, Mr. Park. There'd be no shame in losing to you.
"While beautiful, the desert also harbors hidden dangers: cacti, poisonous snakes, and most deadly of all--
Scorpions!"
They calm down when they're near the Springfield Silvertongues!
Now they're aggressive again! I'm sure there's a correlation, but could there be a... causation?
These flowers saved me from a terrible fate -- not getting an "A" on my next science project!
That doesn't seem fair -- they won't let him escape, then they kick him out. I wonder where he'll go.
This calls for some Springfield Silvertongue!
Dad, look! This essence of a wildflower makes these angry scorpions docile!
That's him!
Dad, is there anything unusual in Grampa's coffee?
Dad! I know what you did!
And I locked the back door!
...and that's why you're acting so sweet and kind. Because Dad drugged you!
But it's not real happiness. It's just because of an untested drug!
It was wrong of me to play goddess!
All right, Bart. What are you up to now?
It's okay, Grampa -- you don't have to act grumpy. I know you're taking the drug, and I don't mind -- because you're happy.
Thanks, sweetie.
I'm sorry I was so stubborn. I hope you're not mad.
Oh, I ain't mad, and I never will be again -- thanks to your wonderful, wonderful...
Let me finish: thanks to your wonderful, wonderful drug.
It happened to the scorpions too! The flower essence must have the side effect of lubricating the eye sockets to the point of popping.
Look!
So I guess the lesson here is...
Cheech and Chong are from Springfield?
These are comedy albums?
The Noisy Minority... The Upside-Down Bubblegum Collective... The Regional Lampoon... The Plymouth Grok Experiment... Fro And Flo... Allan Sherman's Helter Shmelter...
Is it really okay to just drop them into the pit where the Blockbuster used to be?
Easter grass, Cable Ace Awards, aquariums full of broken pinball game parts, popped but uneaten Jiffy Pop still in the silver bubble, sample-sized shampoos, detergents and whiskeys...
This is so sad. Can we help her?
You mean, just reality.
So, how was your first day of school?
Grampa, you're not dead.
I never thought I'd say this, but Dad is the only one who can help us.
Wow! I know I lay down in front of bulldozers to stop this stadium from being built, but I have to admit, it's pretty sweet.
You're out of tonic.
Really? Can I see it?
Aw, come on, Bart, it's fun!
That was kind of the same as the first time.
Why did I suggest this?
Ooh, authentic American folk music, just like they play on N.P.R.!
Initiate phase two.
Affirmative.
Roger.
Where am I? This neighborhood is starting to look a little bit like... Sesame Street.
Wonder who's in there. Could it be Oscar the...
Help! I'm trapped in an alternate dimension! An existential netherspace!
I've been-- Hey, how ya doin'?
No one sent me. I just knocked on the door and it opened!
Uh, how'd I get from inside there to over here?
Sounds like most of the house is still owned by the bank.
How did you do all that?
I do, I do!
Looks like there was magic between you two.
Would you... be interested in teaching me?
What if you just taught me one trick?
I'm not exactly flattered by that.
Hm.
And George Washington took a trip down the...ear-y Canal!
From the Great Raymondo.
You never even opened it.
Need some help?
Raymondo! I mastered the slide pass -- and I've almost mastered the Denver slide pass... and, why is there always a "Denver" version of things?
Oh, what's wrong?
Ew.
No!
Raymondo's greatest secret!
No, I shouldn't -- I won't.
You are? Why?
Students, teachers, detentionees...prepare to have everything you believe about milk cans challenged!
Willie, if you will?
I believe the expression is "ta-da!"
My friends call me Lisa.
Shut up! Now, where were we?
Oh, it's a lot less dangerous than you think. You can see me do it again in a talent show next week.
There's no chance whatsoever. I'll show you.
You don't open the top -- the locks are real.
The can is in two halves, and they slide apart.
From inside, you just push up. Easy peasy. And there's no way anyone can figure out how it's done.
Raymondo, I am so sorry. I got rolled by a pro! Do you know what it's like to be the kind of girl that boys never talk to and then suddenly a boy talks to you--
Haven't you ever been fooled by a pretty face?
Oh, you think I'm pretty?
Raymondo! You forgive me!
I'll get him out!
You're just gonna stand there?
He's going to die!
I guess it's up to me to save you, Cregg Demon Magic Freek.
Ricky Jay? David Copperfield? Penn? Teller?!?!
But why?
Wait, I know he's an unethical magician, and his tattoos are a inconsistent mix of hieroglyphics and cuneiforms. But he doesn't deserve to die.
Raymondo, I knew your heart was as pure as the ether that helps you get to sleep. Raymondo?
We used our last day of summer vacation standing in this line, and now it's time for our reward.
Sold, to the lowest bidder!
Dad, Aunt Selma's treating a mob boss like an ordinary taxpayer.
My lick.
My lick.
Brother germs!
Bart, this is a truffle.
A truffle is a fungus that grows in tree roots. It's one of the most prized gourmet foods in the world.
Bart, you can find them by smell! That's amazing! Restaurateurs use highly-trained pigs to sniff these out.
Interested in these?
How many truffles did you get?
Brown gold... Tuscan tea...
Bart, I am putting this money safely in the bank where you will earn zero point zero zero one percent interest.
Three more big ones and we'll talk.
As big as a baby's head.
That baby's head.
We haven't even gotten our salads yet.
I'm sorry, Bart! Take the last truffle... do whatever you want. Sell it, eat it...
Bart, you've done a truly kind thing.
Oh, so that's why they don't give pigs truffles.
Bart, this isn't a photograph. I'm not just gonna paint you into--
You just ruined six months' work!
You're gonna regret the day you were born!
Bart, I'm afraid we need the help of someone older and wiser.
Why don't you just cut the paint out of her hair?
Cool! / Awesome!
Okay. First of all, it's never wise to use the word "spew" in a love song.
I'm sorry, but I don't love you, Milhouse, and I never will.
Oh. Usually, Milhouse does it.
Why would a popular fifth-grader like Taffy be interested in a Milhouse like Milhouse?
Well, I'm gonna find out why, because this...
Hmm...
Shut up! I just want to know what she's up to with Milhouse. A girl like her could get a fifth grader -- maybe even Kyle LoBianco!
That's the first thing everyone knows about Kyle LoBianco!
Taffy's up to something. And I won't find out what it is sitting at a computer. It's time to get boots on the ground.
You like my boots?
Who'd follow Milhouse around like that? Sneaking around after them all day has taught me a lot about this sicko.
I am never gonna get my homework done tonight.
All right, sister. What's your game?
I am so sorry.
Milhouse, I... I...
Yes... no... I don't know! It means that... that life is full of unexpected things and you should never give up. And you're cute in the moonlight.
Dad, our lives!
Maggie's locked in!
What's this key with the plastic skull for?
So how come we have all these other keys?
I'll return this to the school.
Returning this lost key to Principal Skinner.
Well, maybe a little. But I'd never break the rules.
Banned books?!
Band books?!
Could this key open...
Get thee behind me Namuche! That's the Buddhist Satan. Let's give it a shot.
No problem, just some cobwebs.
I've discovered a mystery, wrapped in a riddle in the basement of a lousy school!
It's like five classrooms in one! A science room... student lounge... mathnasium... An experimental theater! All set for a production of Samuel Beckett's "Endgame"!
Ooh, a pull-down map of...
Nothing? And this ruler is unmarked and... the tabs on this pop-up book have no effect...and this tooth has no dentin! Everything is fake! What is going on?!
Principal Skinner, do you know anything about a bizarre hidden classroom underneath the school?
It's real. I can show you!
You're just pressing a Mento.
And now without further ado, I give you... this!!!
I swear there was a room here!
I've got to get back in that room, but Skinner took away the only key! What would Nancy Drew do?
Hi, my name is Lisa Simpson.
That's us. Do you think you could reproduce the key in this photo?
How much?
Keep the change.
How did this bookshelf get here so fast? I bet it's shoddy.
What do you think of that, Nancy Drew?
Jeez, they're dropping like flies.
The children are on Bus 23.
Skinner's involved in this. Deep.
You know anything about... Bus Twenty-three?
There's only one bed that's just right for me, the bed with the truth in it. Which is probably the third one.
So the answer to our mystery lies on the other side of that ice bridge.
That's where the ice bridge would be! Go down!
Dad, stop!
That's not a real arm -- it's plastic!
No, I mean they're mannequins!
Skinner and Chalmers loaded that bus with those kids... but why?
Otto? Are you the one who left the message on the blackboard?
Otto, they're just mannequins!
Well, there's one thing you didn't count on: my Dad getting a giant wedding cake and my sister locking herself in the car.
I'm sorry, but the team all got food poisoning at the pre-rally egg salad sandwich party. Luckily, as equipment manager, I... was not... invited! Woo-hoo!
Actually, I do have a speech prepared!
You know I hate surprises!
I like routine. I like routine.
Please! I went through my T.R. phase in first grade. Now I realize that the greatest Roosevelt is Franklin.
Yeah, so he could shoot it himself. Franklin Roosevelt led this country through the depression and World War Two!
Face on a dime!
That's a lot of anger, Grampa.
Bart, what are you doing?
What?! I'm telling Mom!
Hello, Mom? You won't believe what Bart's doing.
Dad, I'm going to entertain you with the help of "The Brothers Karamazov." "Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov was the third son of Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov... a landowner well known in our district in his own day, and still remembered among us owing to his gloomy and tragic death, which happened thirteen years ago, and which I shall describe in its proper place."
Da-ad! Anyway, continuing: "For the present I will only say that this 'landowner' -- for so..."
Ew, Dad! Wait a minute... Can you pass gas at will? Fart once for no, twice for yes.
Oh my God! Do you realize what this means?
Well, it means that you can communicate!
Exactly!
I'll recite the alphabet, and you tell me when to stop. A-B-C-D...
Okay, first letter "D." Next letter: A-B-C-D-E-
"D, E"... Amazing! Oh, but before we continue...
Okay: A--
"D, E, A..."
"Dearest Marge, though my body cannot move, my heart still beats and my brain still brains."
I miss holding you in my arms more than my butt can say.
"Perhaps someday there will be a cure. Although if it requires months of difficult physical therapy, I'll pass."
"You are the shining light that gets me through my darkest hours. For further communication I will require more beans. I love you, baby."
All strapped in?
Now prepare to take an incredible journey across the room!
Halloween is over, which means America, it's time to start your Christmas shopping. Infuse our stagnant economy with dollars you don't really have.
Bart, you wanna see something cool?
No.
My science fair project proves that an asteroid will strike the earth on July 15, 9789.
Fine. Good luck with your project, which I'm sure you haven't started yet.
That's pathetic.
Bart, isn't that awfully similar to the cootie patch you did last year?
It's about an asteroid!
It wasn't a pie, it was science! And it's not fair -- my project was way better than Bart's, and I didn't have help from a nerd! I'm my own nerd!
Wow! While I was sitting here feeling sorry for myself, Bart's invention actually changed someone's life!
Video game convention!
This game has all the best college marching bands! From the precision footwork of Ohio State to the lame, dead-on-arrival humor of Stanford!
Uh-oh, I'm losing the crowd!
This is the funnest game ever!
She means the most authentic.
Fun Dad rocks!
Yay! / X-Games! X-Games! / Alright!
Are there at least games here?
Yes it is! That's all it is!
Don't worry about it, Mom. Dad will take us on a great outing next weekend.
Mom, we're hungry!
Relax, Mom -- be adventurous.
Exotic... vegetarian... I can mention it in a college essay... Mom, this is amazing!
Mom, they're here on purpose! They're foodies.
Uhh... before the Koreans?
Goorsha!
Goorsha!
Goorsha! Goorsha! Goorsha! Goorsha! Goorsha!
What kind of American man doesn't want to explore global food culture?
We should start our own food blog... "The Three Mouthketeers!"
People are loving our list of Springfield's top ninety-nine Afghan restaurants.
Whoa! / Cool!
It's called "El Chemistri" and they use science to make the food!
Food Dad! Food Dad! Food Dad!
Yeah-huh: Athos, Porthos, Aramis and D'Artagnan.
I can't believe Dad is missing this!
Wow Mom, that was awesome!
Gift shop!
No fair! This isn't big, it's medium!
What?
He gets four and I only get two?! No fair!
NO FAIR!
Hey -- I know you...
Wait! Wait! Come back! Dad! Follow that dinosaur!
You're T.R. Francis! You wrote the Angelica Button books! They're my favorite fantasy novels!
But why are you working at a dinosaur show? And why did you run away from me? And how did Angelica get a new wand after Baron Mortdeath burned the Wandwood Forest? And--
Of course you're real! Everybody knows you got the idea for this series after an explosion at a crumpet factory knocked you off a double-decker bus. How could that be made up?!
Everything I believed about young adult literature is a lie!
Can I have my allowance early? I need to buy some carbon-offset credits so I can burn all my Angelica Button books.
Doesn't it bother you that Betty Crocker is an invention of twenties-era ad men?
Can you believe publishers would lie to their readers just to make an easy million bucks?
Every book on the "Young Adult" charts is written by five idiots who just want to take advantage of kids!
And they just cash their checks and get away with it every time! It's the perfect crime -- as long as you don't mind betraying the trust of vulnerable young minds.
You're group-writing a book?! But the only reason anyone would ever do that is... profit!
I'll show you! I'll write a book myself! A personal story my readers will connect with!
This is how real writers do it. I'll just bang out two thousand words and then I'll stop, even if I'm on fire. I gotta pace myself. "Chapter one." Wait, I can't start without music to inspire me.
Why is Bach next to Muddy Waters? That's my problem -- I gotta get these CDs organized!
There, finished. Now if I win just two more games of online Boggle, I'll be ready to start writing.
Spot, stop, sop, top-tops, pot-pots, opt-opts, post!
Sitting in a coffee shop -- I couldn't feel more like a real writer! Oh, Better set up my wi-fi in case I need to do some research! But if I'm gonna use their free internet, I really should buy something.
God, I love being a writer!
I've got it! A mermaid falls in love with a boy on land... I'm a genius!
Writing is the hardest thing ever!
Coming to the book fair was a great idea... 'Cause you can't write if you don't know what the competition's up to!
A dog wrote a bestseller?! Aargh! All I've done is procrastinate! Who am I kidding? There will never be a book with my name on it.
Do I have to do any writing?
I'm in.
I was raised in a traveling circus. My mother was a lady ringmaster and my father was a lion barber. I wrote my first story with clown lipstick on a flattened popcorn box. It was featured in The New Yorker's "Best Forty Under Four" issue.
What happened to me? In one vulnerable moment I became the thing I hated most -- a literary fraud.
Aww, I've always wanted an Aiden...
No, guys... it was me.
My name is finally on a book!
And they're letting me write the sequel! A hard deadline is just the kick in the pants I need to focus and get some serious writing done!
I'm sorry.
No need to thank me, boys.
You could never have printed your version of the book without the publisher's password...
So I pretended to betray you... then after he typed the password...
I secretly switched the flash drives.
I got the idea from every movie ever made.
And the best part is, my face is still on the back flap.
Gaiman!
Krappy the Klunk.
See?
Dad, you were supposed to read me a bedtime story.
Does anybody want my opinion?
Proceed to the page with the butterfly bookmark as I cuddle up with Madame Bunny.
Genius.
Patience! Patience! Get on with it!
Well, I could help you...
Well, you're getting my help.
Don't you want to be able to read the things people carve into your chest in prison?
We did it, Bart! I'm a mentor!
No Bart! You can read other books too!
Um, I think we're supposed to get off here.
Hurry! We're heading for the falls!
Mo-om, what are you doing?
Why can't we visit a real museum? One that doesn't have the skeletons of the Three Stooges in the lobby?
Hm, they're selling off all the old TV relics.
I liked the knowledgeable docents.
Krusty?
Well, you're not exactly my hero. I see you more as a cautionary tale.
You're not licked, Krusty. People love a comeback. Look at Robert Downey Junior... Mickey Rourke...
You need an agent? We met a ten percenter today. She'll get you meetings with the eye, the peacock, the alphabet web. You'll have a skein on the sked before you can say "Krusty's wardrobe furnished by Ha-Has of Beverly Hills".
Ms. Dubinsky, can you please just tell us why you hate Krusty?
Um... who says we're gonna have kids of our own?
They self-reference each other.
I need my books!
We're not with him.
Looks like we're back to traveling on tramp steamers and produce trucks.
It's too early to call shotgun!
Dad, you out-talked the talking heads!
Dad, I'm glad your show is successful, but I have to ask you: what's with the crying?
So, what's this with the gravy boat?
You know, symbols can often rile people up. The swastika... the New York Yankees logo...
Um, none.
Dad, you shouldn't do this. It's not fair how much influence you have!
You're endorsing Ted Nugent for President?! He's a right-wing rock star who likes everything I hate!
Dad, you cannot endorse Ted Nugent. I mean, sure, we all love his music...
No question about it.
But he's out of his mind -- he can't run for President!
Oh, Dad! I'm so glad you've heard the voice of reason.
Dad, no!
Maybe because deep down, you know you don't believe in what you're doing.
I knew you were, Dad. I always knew.
Well, it all started a couple of months ago...
Like all too many stories about my family, it began with somebody watching television.
Hm, I kinda want to create my own thing. Do you sell any just plain sets?
Well, I'll just buy one of these and build something different.
Trust me, I've left a lot out, and cleaned up the swears. Anyway, I ran into some schoolmates and thought they might be friendly. That's what kids do, right? Hang out at the mall together. But when I went over...
Hi, guys, what are you doing?
Can I join you?
They-they don't?
What the--
I have no friends.
Okay.
I'd have more friends if I knew what people liked. But I won't know what people like unless I'm their friend. It's a conundrum.
Hm...
It's easier to be friends with lots of people online than one person in person. What if I started an online meeting place where all are equal and I am the undisputed center?
No, that is not true! I--
All right already! I had no friends.
So, since I had no friends, I assembled a motley crew of the friendless to help me construct my social network. Did we become friends? No.
As the CEO of SpringFace, I want you all to have fun as you write source code until you fall asleep at your consoles.
Nelson, you've just given us the template for our site!
I never said it was diabolical!
Hit refresh.
Hit refresh.
I have a thousand friends! And only eight of them are Milhouse.
Wait a minute, grownups are on this?
That's not you.
Wow, I've created something incredibly popular!
Friend, friend, awaiting reply, friend...
Sherri? Terri? Hopscotch? Double Dutch? Ringolivio? Anyone?
I have a thousand friends, and I feel more alone than ever!
I'm trying to set a mood here.
As I was saying, SpringFace was used in ways I never expected.
I know it's awful and insular, and caused thirty-five deaths, but I had friends! Four digits of friends! I had a friend in common with Malcolm Gladwell!
Fine. I'll shut down the site.
You really want me?
Polo!
Even a kid who wears a "Finding Nemo" back brace has some pride. You went too far this time, Bart.
Yes I did. Now I'm going to bed.
Your bar is the closest thing this town has to an Algonquin roundtable.
Yeah, yeah, okay, second closest.
Sorry, sorry, I didn't mean to be nosey.
You have a way with words.
Mom, I'm gonna look at the desserts!
Yep, you're the crack head. What dessert are you gonna get?
Um, I should probably get back to my Mom. By the way, my name is--
Lisa. Now this is the most important place in the world.
This place is great! If I cover my peripheral vision, I feel like I'm in France!
Ew. How 'bout I'll just look at you.
It's... nice.
Mom, I'm sorry I'm late! No excuse, I just forgot all about you. Huh? I'm not sure that patch really represents who I am right now.
Mom, I have a crush!
Somehow I missed that phase.
The boy I like is Hemingway-esque!
Wow, Nick here in our house. I hope it doesn't make him think less of me.
Mom can't appreciate the kind of boy Nick is, because although I love Dad, he's a completely different creature.
Nick and I met talking through a crack between two booths!
Man, that company thinks every time it adds a wisecracking parrot to a story, they own it.
Grampa, would you help take me on a foolish romantic mission?
Mulberry Island. We'll kiss there at sunset.
Ow!
If we stop now, we'll never make it there by sunset.
But Grampa...
We could take this boat.
I thought you rowed up the Zambezi without a guide.
You know, you were a lot more adventurous at the dessert table.
Shut up and kiss me.
Wait, how long is this love for again?
Hm, that's a pretty long time.
Thanks. But I couldn't have done it, Mom. I mean, the person you kiss under a mulberry tree is someone you'll love for the rest of your life.
I know it's futile, but I must again point out there is no dragon.
Again, I maintain that money would be better spent on car insurance.
I pick up books like you pick up beers!
Do we really have to sit here the whole time? I mean, if we went out now, it might be cool to see the town empty.
I could see a planetarium show without the secondhand marijuana!
If I didn't know better, I'd say it was a town meeting.
Why would you want to banish us from Springfield?
Dad, where are we going? Do we have a plan?
Ahhh, smell that unpolluted air! Y'know, I'm glad we're in exile.
It's not perfect here, but it is close to nature and if you have an axe to grind, Wikileaks is right over there.
Well, I did miss a few things about the grid... like everything!
Maureen Dowd, we've got a lot of catching up to do.
Dad? Dad?
Dad, I wanted to give you a heads-up. Mom's birthday is tomorrow. It's time to start your annual mad dash around town to get her a present that's not completely insulting.
Wha--? Mom is gonna love that!
By who? Lenny?
They have jellies made of fruits I've never heard of!
These'll go great with betel nut butter!
But at the Kwik-E-Mart, the only fresh fruit is the one banana by the register.
Wait! Maybe Paula Paul left a message.
Yo, mysterious pranksters, it's time for dinner.
Just throw in a couple of "fur is murders."
Da-ad!
Looks like Dad's not coming.
You're an undercover cop?
What is going on?
We're actually entering Dad's dreams?
Listen, everyone! We should fall asleep in this dream! One minute at this level equals two hours one dream level below!
Everything has rules, Bart.
Forsooth, a myst'ry-
We never do my thing!
Gramma!
We'll take your word for it.
Power's out.
...you promised to help me write a haiku...
Thank you!
Dearly beloved, we are not here to mourn their deactivation, but to celebrate their period of function.
Dad, they can only go three miles an hour!
With great difficulty!
Wow, the TV's hooked up to the internet! You can stream whole seasons of old TV shows.
"Stranded" was a show about people marooned on a mysterious island that's riddled with religious and scientific paradoxes. It was huge! Well, the first season and the last season.
Hello, lovebirds.
I've been following your storyline from afar, Bart, waiting for that inevitable point where you get into trouble you couldn't get out of. Perhaps I could broker a settlement.
Hear, hear!
I don't think Shauna should choose any of you. Shauna should choose Shauna.
Well Bart, I guess that's our cue to skedaddle...
Face it, we're just kids. We can't afford stuff with zeroes in the prices. All we have in the world are the things our parents give us.
I sold a couple of my rare jazz records. After a while they all start to sound the same. Still love the genre, of course. Not even close to getting sick of it.
And Dad donated something, too.
Well, well, Mr. Never-Wrong was right again -- family vacations always suck. I called it. Called. It.
Kidzone... Let me guess: a broken foosball table and a game of Clue missing its candlestick.
It's so diverse! I've died and gone to a PBS kids show!
Two!?!!!
Two diplomats' sons are in love with me. Who will I choose: Ghana or Portugal?
Sweet? Sweet?! The passengers on this ship could be the last people on earth!
Like monks during the dark ages, it's up to the KidZone: Elite to make a record of human culture.
This group is adapting children's classics for the stage to entertain generations of survivors.
Bart, how could you?
From egg to baby to grownup, we can see them living their entire penguin lives from up here!
This stupid prank is the most selfish thing you've ever done!
Hey, up here! You've gotta see this!
The penguin's life isn't all bad. Those ones are having a blast!
Well sure life is full of pain and drudgery, but the trick is to enjoy the few perfect experiences we're given in the moment.
Hold that thought. I'm tuning my saxophone. Sharp. Flat. Sharp.
Nelson, don't you want my lunch money?
That's sexist, but thank you.
Well, if you must... see if you can find out where my dolls are.
I just want closure.
That's Nelson!
Krusty! This once-vibrant young bully won't even live to pick on kids in junior high! Because he's been eating nothing but your food!
Do you actually serve those items?
Well, he's tough on nerds, but easy on the eyes.
Nothing.
Dad?
First of all, congratulations on getting the lead.
I just hope you're gonna take this seriously.
Dad, the story of the passion is the cornerstone of the Christian faith. And although I personally follow the enlightened teachings of Lord Buddha, messing with Jesus really gets people mad -- it's like wearing a Florida State jersey to a Florida game.
It'll be fine. Just learn your lines.
He's in every scene.
Oooh, look at these: "Extreme Weddings" triathlon, zero G... "tie the knot at the top of Mt. Everest?!"
They have Itchy and Scratchy weddings?
Mr. Szyslak, I have a feeling there's going to be one more act to this story.
Bart, aren't you gonna tell Mom and Dad about the problem you have?
I'm just saying it won't get better unless you talk to an adult.
That's my brother! Four years out of four.
What?! "Least Popular?" I gotta go.
Um... thank you for noticing me?
You said they'd take it easy on me!
Um, can I be excused from holding up my end of the conversation?
Let's see... "Uncensored Jump-rope Chants"... Oh, there's a whole thread labeled "Lisa Simpson!"
Y'know, it seems like more than a coincidence that Milhouse brought it to our attention.
Yep. Message boards are never wrong.
Dutch?
Forgive a fool her tears.
Fifth-graders? Ooh-la-la! They get to put their desks in a circle!
So, when's the party?
That's mine!
Give that back!
What is the point? I think this is the end of me. All I had was my integrity. And now that's gone. I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. I try not to cry till you're asleep.
Look, if I could just spend a few days in my room without anyone trying to cheer me up, I think I might have a chance to...
It's not a frown. It is a straight line of resignation. Looks just the same upside down.
Dad, if you really wanna help, please stop trying to help.
I'm sorry, I don't really want to be here.
Please, I've had enough attention for one day!
Oh God.
This is where I live.
Please, take your time.
Solitude?
Let me explain. I have a chance for a grim but tolerable life, but only if I give up hope. Now if you don't mind, and with all due worship, I would like to be alone.
Can I please be alone?
Well, it worked once.
Why do you keep telling me what I'm gonna do? This isn't about me.
You! It's about Hello, hello, Springfield. It's me, Gaga! Why is everyone looking at my purple hair full of bluebirds?
Well, I denounce thee!
I denounce thee for giving people ambitions they cannot fulfill! And I denounce thee for positing a world where social acceptance and walking on heels are easy!
I denounce thee! I denounce thee! I denounce thee!
Don't "monster" me.
Are you crying... glitter?
Dad, thank you. Like always, the fact that I could tune you out without fearing I'd miss out on something, gave me the time to take stock, and realize how ungrateful I have been. Which means I've got a train to catch.
Gaga!
To thank you!
Look at me! You did help me, by allowing me to inappropriately focus eight years of rage and rejection on you. It was like a great sneeze. And now I can say what's good about me. And I can say it as Lisa Simpson! Just not that loud.
Well, I'm smart, nice, tolerant, funny but not "mean funny," and I never forget a birthday, even for kids who move away.
I'll do anything but sing!
I USED TO THINK THAT I WAS STUPID, WORTHLESS, WEAK, AND WRONG
A MOCKINGBIRD WITHOUT A SONG...
I WAS SMALL INSIDE AND LACKING PRIDE...
ON A ONE-WAY TRAIN TO BE MILHOUSE'S BRIDE...
I LOVE NPR, AND JAZZ GUITAR...
SOME DAY I'LL DESIGN A SOLAR CAR!
THAT'S RIGHT, I'M LISA SIMPSON, SUPERSTAR!
LISA SIMPSON / LISA SIMPSON
LISA SIMPSON SUPERSTAR!
LISA SIMPSON / LISA SIMPSON...
LISA SIMPSON SUPERSTAR!
And the best thing is, even if they weren't waving, it would be okay.
A peloton?
Meaningless friend thing.
We're not having a baby!
Oh brother. Let's dance.
Hey Bart? At least I've got a date!
Now you listen to me, Bart. Milhouse may not be the perfect date...
But...
At least I'm with someone who tries a little too hard because he really likes me.
Yeah, for about a week. But as soon as they get to know the real you, they departo de Barto. And that's why you're alone tonight.
Fievel was a mouse in a movie.
Can't Dad take Bart while we seek out culture?
Well, at least I'll be able to say I went to a Broadway show.
All right, Broadway's too expensive, the museums are over-curated -- but Shakespeare in the Park is tonight, and the tickets are free!
Not so fast! We came for Shakespeare, and we're gonna see Shakespeare!
Anyone who wants to be in this, grab a doublet and meet me backstage!
I was thinking amateurs only.
Fine, you're in.
Oh, for the love of God.
Hey, don't ever stop, because tonight we made it in New York!
Hey! I specifically said no critics! This is outrageous! Ooh, but they like me!
But we're here to ask if you have an idea for a couch gag.
Huh?
A mini black hole!
Oh no, I've got to take it away before more clueless kids fall into it!
Um, it's a lot worse than a stray dog.
It's a black hole!
Are you sure your next guess wasn't "three stray dogs?"
Yes, it's the preferred term. And most scientists believe that what enters a black hole never comes out. But some think they may be a gateway to other universes.
Guys, stop throwing things in the hole -- the more you throw in, the bigger and more dangerous it becomes!
Dad, don't pat it!
Dad, that's creepy.
The black hole is looking a lot bigger. Does anybody want to admit to throwing things in?
And I have to ask... has anyone seen the cat?
Stop! This is a black hole, not a lawn and leaf bag! If one more thing gets in there it could reach critical mass!
Noooo!
You tossed your car keys in my bean plant!
Why is this happening to us?
But--
Mom, what's going on?
It's Moe with wings!
I thought I was the favorite.
Not the favorite! Not the favorite!
Achem!
Me neither.
I think it's "new car smell."
Bart! What are you doing in my room?!
What do you do Tuesdays and Thursdays after school?
A gentleman doesn't ask and a lady doesn't tell.
I guess.
I know why they're here!
Because they can't let me have a secret. It drives them crazy.
Cursive writing. I'm learning cursive. All these sentences have every letter of the alphabet in them.
I hope you're happy. You all just wasted your time working your way into an afterschool class.
You put my college fund on a poker site?!
Well... at least I have a college fund!
More importantly it's a college fund...
Dad, please!
Where'd you get that shirt?
Are you playing poker with my college fund?
Get your hands off my future!
New low, even for this family... college fund on a poker site... I'm just gonna log right out.
Get outta here!
Huh. Two queens. That's a great start.
Well, maybe I can just win the sixty-two dollars back.
Four queens! Yes! Yes!!!
All due respect, Mr. Flanders, could I have a little privacy?
Please? Thank you.
Yeah! Fifty dollars up! Time to play with house money!
Shoo!
How did he...
I've read every expert on poker, and watched Jennifer Tilly's DVD.
And money is college, which should lead to more money some day, but who knows anymore?
Okay, education paid for. With a gap year, to find myself. Every nerve in my body is screaming "cash out now," and yet... I've got a pair of aces!
Full house! Aces over threes! Take that, rich-texan-oh-oh-one, and sideshow-bob-at-springfield- penitentiary. Ha! I'm going all in!
What? He didn't fold? But that's insane unless he has...
Four threes?! Oh no! No-no-no-no-no, nooooo!
Can't breathe... I've lost, I've lost everything.
This is the worst thing that's ever happened to me! I was Ivy! Strong Ivy!
What are you talking about?
Oh my God! You won the pot? You must have nearly a million dollars! I can go to college and live like a Kennedy.
Well, back to square one is a major victory in this house, but why did you help me?
C'mon, tell me!
What? You did?
Sure. I have the ending for my memoir!
It's not the vegetarianism!
Lisa.
All day I have vitamin burps.
Mmm! Tasty! Love the texture. What is it?
But I'm a vegetarian!
Really?
This is such a big step!
Mm, that is good grub.
But I promised Paul McCartney I wouldn't eat meat.
So if I'm growing grasshoppers to eat, am I a farmer or a rancher? There are gonna be a lot of heated blogs on this topic.
You know, shrimp aren't all that removed from grasshoppers. They're both arthropods...
You did that to help me out!
Not sure what your motivation for that is.
Get along, little buggies!
You don't feel any pain.
Um... I just assumed?
Nooo!
Nooo!
Oh, thank God! Just a dream!
I've been meat-walking!
Bart! I can't eat bugs anymore. Please, please, take my grasshoppers as far away as you can and release them into the wild.
I'll be cool.
He's there too?!
Okay, Mom. I think that's far enough.
Finally, a place where you can spread your wings and hop.
The dog's got the mumps.
Willie, I love your chaps.
I bought you a ticket for the MyPad raffle, Dad.
Dad, check this out!
Dad, a mother giraffe is giving birth!
Dad, the baby giraffe is taking its first steps!
Dad, pay attention to your children!
Amen.
Whoa.
Look at these obscure card games! Hey, do you have "Uno?"
I didn't know that was an option.
I can finally compost!
At the art walk we walked into a gallery and it was just a guy crying -- that was the art!
Check it out, the New York Times travel section just named Springfield "America's Coolest City."
Please, please take me with you! I am one of you! I understood all your references!
No matter where you go... I will find you!
The back yard?! But what if he got out through your half-completed tunnel to Flanders's fridge?
I love that dog, but that is one long, stupid name.
Dad, I just noticed something: you're not upset enough about this.
What?! You cry all the time! You cried when they canceled that show you hated.
How did Santa's Little Helper get in there?
Well, it's time we showed this dog some love!
You never take him for walks or sleep with him in your arms. And I suspect you've been chewing on his treats.
What just happened? Who's Bongo?
Wait. How could you know what Herman said? You were driving away.
But I wanna know about Dad and his broken heart.
Grampa, why is the saddest story you ever told the only one that's ever made sense?
What's hopeless?
Whatcha reading, Dad?
When grownups say that, it means there is something to worry about.
What does that mean?
Every time you wake us up early in the morning, it's either church or we have to change our identities.
You said you cut the wires to the alarm!
Dad, there are lights following us!
What happened with the E.M.P.?
Guys, can't you see that even an imperfect society is better than the savagery of creating a new one? I for one am glad we're stuck with civilization and I think we will be for a long, long time.
Well I'm glad you're not upset. All my extra credit points are like frequent flyer miles on a bankrupt airline.
You didn't?! Is there no limit to your disrespect?
Wait a minute... if you take the test now, your score could raise the average and save the school!
Proctor Clarkeson -- one student still hasn't taken the test!
It's Bart.
So, how's the studying going?
This is the most selfish thing you've ever done!
You're letting your friends go hang because you are lazy, and selfish, and-- Hey, are you falling asleep just to spite me?!
Spinach farm, huh? That's right, you talk in your sleep.
Look, the thing is, it's more important to know how to take a test than knowing what's on it. So, do the ones you know first. If you don't know one, guess B and move on. Now, what is the capital of Massachusetts?
Very good.
I don't like this game! Nobody likes this game! Even the kids on the box look bored!
They're miserable.
Twister!
No! Outside the house!
It was so scary thinking something might happen to you guys.
Where are we going?
With nametags on them?
This is a pretty important decision.
Someone's smitten.
Another surfer?
Things that you're desperately missing from your life that you never knew you needed.
What's that stone around your neck?
Princeton, B.A., Oxford, M.A. -- I smell a Rhodes.
I'm exactly the kind of kid he's pretending to be.
Portia, you're the woman I dream of becoming, but Mom is my Mom.
There is nothing like your biological family.
Mary, could I steal Bart for a minute?
Bart Simpson, I don't know what the future holds for you...
...but, Bart, I do know this: you will not do better than Mary Spuckler, so don't ignore her for a stupid video game!
Ew! On every level! Ew! Bart, you have to treat girls like they matter -- not like they're a bunch of Milhice. What? It's the plural of Milhouse. Look it up.
What I'm saying applies to you too, Dad.
Don't you see, you're taking women for granted. And aside from being lumped together and generalized about, it's the one thing all women hate.
Compliment her!
No, you're watching Baby Poindexter, the most educational DVD available at the checkout aisle at the grocery store!
Bart? You wanted to show me something?
Wait a minute. Didn't Bart and I both watch this thing when we were little?
Well, the obvious question is... why did I turn out so... academically superior... while Bart--
What?!
Oh great, another invasive Skype from Mil-- huh?
He's right here.
Dad, why are you kowtowing to Mr. Van Houten?
Dad?!
Mom, I think Maggie misses TV.
You know Mom, I was thinking we could take Maggie downtown. "The Jazz Hole" is featuring a Dizzy Gillespie tribute band. Their trumpeter has the puffiest cheeks...
I get it. Middle child. Never do what I want.
Okay, I also know of a puppet show...
Really? Who?
Milhouse?
Well, Milhouse, you might get past the bouncer at the jazz club because they're in no position to turn anyone away. But it doesn't matter, 'cause we can't pay for the gas and the cover fee anyway.
They're not gonna write a check to a couple of kids.
Thanks, but lowering your voice and standing on paint cans doesn't make you man enough to be my dad.
Now remember, I can't sit backwards or I get sick.
Your intellect-deadening DVDs turned my brother's brain to jelly.
It's just enough to get home. I'm hungry now.
Guys, look!
Free breakfast if we sit through a sales pitch. Just remember, Milhouse, do not buy the condo.
Well, before our dad signs any contracts, he has a surprise for you...
Kirk? Don't you have something to tell her?
Hmm, you're right. It is the golden age of well-written, brilliantly-acted TV shows.
It looks like you're not the only predatory opportunist in town.
I've got perfume spritzers.
Property of Abraham J. Simpson? This is Grampa's stuff!
Why don't you put a personal ad on the internet? That's how young people date these days.
I know. It's weird to me too.
"Gorilla Joe," "Gorilla Sam," "Gorilla Pete," "Ook and Eek, the Gorilla Twins"... Where did Mr. Burns dig up all these old wrestlers?
SCORRRE!
Why do you think bad guys are so cool?
Do not. That's ridiculous-- It's just-- It's that-- He's-- He's a rebel and only I can change him!
I got one for just watching the game.
Why are you so mean to me?
Please let it be someone smart, motivated, and who won't just teach us corporate-sponsored lessons.
Confident... Vassar sticker on the windshield... could it be... do I detect... enthusiasm?!
She's brought her own orrery!
And it's got no Pluto! How cutting edge!
Please-be-her! Please-be-her!
Lisa Simpson, hi. As second grade student-faculty liaison, I'd like to welcome you-
Well, while you're grading so generously... here's mine.
Meat?!
Fur?!
But I am playing! I'm hop-scotching from paragraph to paragraph, climbing the monkey bars of plot and theme.
Please keep them together! If not for me, for the mother!
The joeys go in feet first!
Chauncey!
Ms. Cantwell?
More than I want unicorns to be real!
I remind you of you?
This class doesn't give demerits.
What if I home school?
Principal Skinner...
"Ann, Mark, Bill and Sally are on the Ferris wheel. Ann is behind Sally. Mark is in front of Bill.
Better switch to Social Studies.
Eleanor Roosevelt became Franklin's 'eyes and ears...'
I have a bully at school.
My bully is my teacher.
We don't have the metric system.
Can I ask you guys something? Why does someone become a bully?
But why would my teacher be a bully?
My teacher's still bullying me.
That just made it worse.
Ms. Cantwell, I can make this stop. All you have to do is... like me.
Ms. Cantwell! Wait!
I've got to know before you leave! Why don't you like me?
That is so unsatisfying.
You think I'm pretty?
She hates me because I'm pretty!
Can you sign my yearbook?!
Nice going, Bart. You've ruined Halloween, Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter. The legendary grand slam.
Wow -- he passed the Maggie test. And remember how Maggie solved Cookiegate?
To prove my brother's innocence, I demand a youth court!
That's right! Bart must not be judged by these kids, but by a jury, of kids. Mostly these kids. There's only so many kids.
Good news, bad news. We're allowed to select the judge, but it's impossible to find one who doesn't hate you...
Sorry.
I find that a little hard to believe.
Grampa's story was true?
Objection! Prejudicial!
She sustained me!
And do you think this boy took those eggs?
But could Bart have gotten those eggs?
No further questions.
Why are you here?
Your Honor, I think we've seen enough. I have demolished the prosecution's claims and made the prosecutor sweat through two shirts.
I move that you dismiss this case, and release this sweet, lovable boy.
The trial's not over and gravy is dead animal juice.
Just remember this: a Simpson never gives up.
Mr. Burns, I came here because my brother is about to be wrongfully convicted. And the man I'm looking for would help me find the truth.
And so I've learned that the only true Batmen are Christian Bale and Adam West. Why are you washing Bumblebee Man's pants?
That's odd.
This skirt has a small splatter...
Splatter, as if the egg had been crushed against it by hand--
--like someone faked being hit so they wouldn't be a suspect.
What's that?
This kilt says you framed my brother! Why?
But how did you get the key?
Aw... but I do hope you'll try to be good from now on.
Today you were truly a hero. Thank you.
You know, if you're gonna be a hero, you might not want to tent your fingers like that.
Maybe you should wrap your hands behind your head.
Ah! Tenting! Tenting! Back to the tenting!
I think our lunches got mixed up.
Milhouse? Got anything good?
Ooh, a cupcake!
Oh. Okay. If you'll excuse me, I have to go think of you in a different light.
I'm sorry I was inconsiderate, Milhouse. And furthermore, I respect you more for saying "no."
I just have one thing to say...
Chocolate or regular?
Why am I doing this?
Milhouse, you'll probably think this is lame, but I was gonna go for a nature walk after school and I thought maybe you'd like to...
Milhouse, seeing you there... saying nothing... it's the cutest you've ever been.
Hush, sweet boy. Let me get lost in the blue of your eyebrows.
It came with fries or salad.
Well I wasn't sure, so I got both. Who knows her little Milhouse?
Milhouse, I'm not sure why you left me in the forest, so I made cookies. But I didn't know what kind you liked, so I made you seven kinds. I've become my mother! Well, common sense never goes out of style That was too easy!
No. Nobody did.
Bart! Milhouse!
Milhouse, are you okay?
I don't know... it's four days old... I just ate...
Okay!
Aw, that's sweet.
Our poor couch...
I'm gonna put all my stuffed animals on it!
All right, get comfy.
Those are bedbugs!
You know, in the Middle Ages people took refuge in church to escape the bubonic plague, but that made the plague spread even faster!
I'm sorry your dress is gone, Mom.
Well then you shouldn't feel bad because I can't imagine myself ever getting married.
Hey, I have a weakness for pomp!
Mom, I found your wedding dress!
Using something this town has never ever seen: good, honest police work.
I staked out the alley and befriended the garbage man who took it. Then he gave it to a local theater company, who used it in the first unsuccessful version of "Mamma Mia." In a bankruptcy sale, it was bought by a young couple. That couple right there!
You never know, Mom. I'm only eight. I might get married someday... even if it's only a green card marriage to keep a Chinese dissident from being deported.
Mom's deleting old TV shows off the DVR.
Whatever Bart's doing it's got to be pretty bad for him to get me tickets to this amazing jam session!
All the greats are here -- Jellyroll Jones, Boston Cream Basie, Birthmark Billy Jackson, Grabass Walker, The Fatneck Sisters, and... Bleeding Gums Murphy?!
No! That's impossible! He's dead! I lay a saxophone reed at his grave every year.
It's a hologram?! Well, maybe if it's in good taste...
Aw, c'mon.
Dear She-Done-Left-Me-Records. Once again, I write protesting your holographic exploitation of blues icon Bleeding Gums Murphy. I call for a boycott and girl-cott of your entire catalogue until you... Sonny Rollins?!
You're siding with record companies?
You're a hologram, aren't you?
Have you no shame?
I was.
So you're saying Moe's Dumbo, his bourbon is the giant ears, and we're that flock of racist crows?
That's the kind of riff you can aim for after years of practice. We start off with the fun stuff: music theory.
Don't worry, music theory's just a fancy word for music math.
Something smells fishy.
I guess Bart must be a musical genius, because frauds are always found out. Always.
Ki-Ya Karate Monsters!
Mom said we could watch it!
Ki-Ya!
It's for babies!
Blob-Jitsu kick!
It's Ki-Ya Karate Monsters.
Samurai Shampoo Blast!
Happy birthday dad! / Happy Birthday Grampa!
Pill Attack!
Ki-Ya--
Ki-Ya!
The geyser's one of the most famous natural wonders in... Iceland. I guess that's where Carl's from.
He said he went home, and his passport is gone. What country is he from?
Iceland keeps the most detailed family records of any country in the world.
There... Carl was adopted... by a couple who lives outside Reykjavik.
We're pretty broken.
What is it? What is it? What is it?
Yay!
Wait... you named me after a train?
Are you sure mom is really gonna want a rusted-out kiddy train?
Aww, Dad, I just got a little twinge in my heart.
Dad! Do we have to ride like this?
Mom! Bart's twisting facts in an Orwellian fashion!
Orwell, obscure? The author of "Animal Farm?"
Happy anniversary, Mom!
Three kids with no money but plenty of love!
Happy anniversary!
THREE AWESOME KIDS AND A LIFE OF REGRET!
Oooh, there's new marshmallows in the Belfast Charms!
That's not right.
Hey!
I'm glad you're back, Dad. It's hard to sleep with one un-kissed cheek.
Bart! Why is the Dad I always wished for creeping me out?
Point taken.
Dad, what's that on your lap?!
Don't you think it's weird that dad stopped eating pork and drinking beer?
Something happened to Dad on that trip. This is worse than when he went to New Orleans and came back with the southern accent.
Chief, is there really a terrorist threat to Springfield?
Intelligence?
Dad's kneeling on a prayer mat! He doesn't believe in kneeling!
Huh. It looks like he's praying...
To the East! The Middle East! Mecca!
He's targeting the nuclear plant?!
Mom! I have to tell you something about Dad! Something big!
Exactly!
But, but--
I think someone I love is a terrorist. Does that make me crazy?
I haven't heard anything about you, except from you.
How much did you hear?
Nothing really.
Dad, you're scary when you're calm and focused.
When what's all over?!
What other side?
Dad!
Girl Scout cookies get you in anywhere.
Please, don't do this, Dad! I don't know what horrors you saw in Boise, but it's not worth blowing up everyone you love.
Is that something your terrorist masters told you to tell me?
But I saw you praying to Mecca!
But wait, wait, wait! What is this?
I've told you that a million times!
No one can use it but no one gets hurt!
I can complete my Dad's mission just like George W. Bush.
We did it, Dad. We did it.
You weren't shot!
You know, Dad, just because your mission's complete, it doesn't mean you have to go back to pork eating, and beer-drinking...
'Twas Halloween night, with the kids door-to-dooring, and all over town blood sugar was soaring.
But the Simpson abode was deep down in the dumps. 'Cause from little to bigger the kids had the mumps.
Then we heard a loud crash...we were tempted to scat...
The Fat in the Hat!
Say, Mr. Hat, I don't mean to complain, but you promised us candy, not mayhem and pain.
...so we hitched us a ride on a three-hump gumbamel!
A gumbamel's a camel but faster and humbler. It doesn't take tips and it's never a grumbler. So if you must leave in a kind of a scramble, then jump on the hump of a humble gumbamel.
We thought we'd escaped from our psychotic guide...
But when we got home, he was waiting inside!
Actually, there's a little more.
I could do what I want to Bart's head?
/
You're rotating it in the wrong direction!
Well, now I always have someone to eat lunch with.
Rainbow... oh, Rainbow...
Why Bart? I thought we were friends!
Are you really, really sure?
Well then, I guess I have no choice.
'Cause in a head-to-head battle, the one with the most brains wins!
I feel your pain, brother.
Help me, doctor!
I won the science fair! I get to go to Chicago!
Eh, Bart, Bart, Bart.
I have a solution!
Maybe the best way to keep students from cheating is to trust them not to cheat.
What I'm suggesting is we create an honor code.
The students would do it.
If every student pledges not to cheat, and to turn in any cheater, no one will cheat the system because they'll be the system.
Hello, children. I hold before you a copy of the school's new honor code.
I know if I can get the toughest kid in class to sign it, the rest of you will sign it. Milhouse?
Now, the smartest kid. Milhouse?
Now the class nerd. Milhouse?
I guess I'll be getting some extra credit for this.
No, this is good.
I got Bart's backpack.
He got a hundred on his test?! That's impossible!
Is Bart cheating?
Bart! I'm gonna tell!
Oh my God, you found a loophole! Why don't you just put this much inventiveness into your work?
You've presented me with quite a conundrum.
A word you should know since it was on a vocabulary test you aced.
But after some thought, all my worries went away.
I know the answer. I'm gonna force you to turn yourself in.
Well Bart, is that enough of a sign for ya?
Did you know some historians think American football is based on an ancient Aztec game?
Bart, you're not annoyed that Milhouse asked me to go to the American football game instead of you?
American football.
Look, while I'd like to help, I'm kind of pessimistic about the team's chances.
No you're not!
Wow! That was great! Can I have my regular clothes back, please?
I can't believe he pays you so little. The crowd was crazy about you.
Lisa. Guys, do you realize you're being exploited by this team?
They sell your posters...workout DVDs...and all of your practices are broadcast on a webcam.
And some of the angles are loooooow. But don't worry, collective bargaining will enable us to secure concessions.
We're gonna push 'em back, push 'em back, push 'em way, way back! All the way to a new con-tract! 'Cause union power is a fact! And we're...
Actually, I've been hit by the unfair labor practices bug.
How? By size, brand, value? And don't even suggest race, 'cause I don't see that. I just see little people I own. What do you say, ladies?
Ooh, Good... nice... "Beat Dallas." Can never argue with that.
Okay guys, I got your ice creams.
Dad! We're missing "The Giant Capybaras of Uruguay!"
Dad! Maggie's rolling away!
If they get her in their warrens, we'll never see her again!
That's it, Maggie! Use the Dino-Wand!
Me too.
ONE IS THE LONELIEST NUMBER THAT YOU'LL EVER DO...
TWO CAN BE AS BAD AS ONE / IT'S THE LONELIEST NUMBER SINCE THE NUMBER ONE...
NO IS THE SADDEST EXPERIENCE YOU'LL EVER KNOW / YES, IT'S THE SADDEST EXPERIENCE YOU'LL EVER KNOW...
'CAUSE ONE IS THE LONELIEST NUMBER THAT YOU'LL EVER DO / ONE IS THE LONELIEST NUMBER, WORSE THAN TWO... AND ONE-- You know, I really think I've made the point.
A spitwad?
Well, at least I'm getting some attention.
Begone!
Well, you're never alone surrounded by "The Autobiography of Charles Manson."
New kid? Um, have you made any friends?
That's a reference to the Brontë sisters!
How do you know my name?
Oh.
Isabel!
And don't you hate being the middle child?
It's raw veggies, they're supposed to be cold!
I'd better go.
Oh my God. Someone wants to be my partner. Can't screw this up.
Franklin Roosevelt bravely instituted a series of reforms called the New Deal...
F.D.R.'s steadfast leadership also helped America win World War Two...
A Lincoln Republican?
A Reagan Republican?
First President Bush?
Oh, dear God.
That isn't a word.
I just can't believe someone like you would be a Republican. I mean, isn't your last name Gutiérrez?
I'm just saying that people of your heritage... which could be any one of many heritages, I'm not pigeonholing... is it a Catholic thing?
Yes, why?
My new best friend isn't what I thought. She's a... Republican.
What is so funny? They're destroying the world!
You voted for Reagan?!
So... you were going through a phase?
What are you trying to say?
Listen, I'm really sorry about...
What?! My Mom says you're going through a conservative phase!
Listen, we're both eight years old. Can't we just play Monopoly or something?
Just can't resist those words "signup sheet." Oh, looks like I'll be running against Isabel. And Ralph?!
Isabel! I want this campaign to be about the issues: same-sex fieldtrip buddies, providing class pets with a path to citizenship...
Ew. How long has it been since you washed your stomach?
Cakey or gooey?
What are you doing?!
Well then you could use your free speech to denounce this intrusion of big money into our election.
Pour me another.
What are ya doing? S'imaginary.
Fine. I gotta go.
I'll see you later.
Bart, I need you to help me win the election.
I'm fine with rough.
You got it.
You're just taking advantage of the situation.
I'll make both.
By discussing the school's budget crisis?
Organic gardening is an essential part of twenty-first century education, teaching both hands-on--
That's impossible. We've already had the best plumbers in the city look into it.
What are you so happy about?
Excellent.
What am I doing? Untent! Untent! Oh Bart, I want to win, but not like this. I'm sorry. You're fired!
Okay, I'm a liberal. And sometimes that's a dirty word.
But what liberal really means, is someone who believes that those who have more than enough should share a little with those who don't.
And those principles have consistently been in place during this country's most prosperous times. So if that's a liberal then I am a liberal... and hang me.
The Democratic Party pantheon. Such lofty ideals! And here come the spirits... Michael Dukakis, Walter Mondale, John Kerry?! These are all losers!
What about Obama? Harry Truman? Bill Clinton?
So, do you know how I can win?
I know what I've got to do.
Hello, Isabel? Listen...
And I also wanna say that if--
But I--
Congratulations, Isabel. I truly hope you enjoy the Friday morning council meetings and the, the free Snickerdoodle cookies.
Hey. I'm sorry I fired you.
Thanks, Bart.
They find me a pointy-haired know-it-all.
What are you getting at?
Huh. You hear that world?! They love my ideas, just not me! And that is half the battle! Ha!
I didn't say anything.
Yes.
Good one, ding dong!
What are you doing?
Krusty, are you broke?
You could do what "Everybody Loves Raymond" did.
I mean you could sell foreign rights to your show. Even SpongeBob did it.
What I'm saying is, you could produce foreign versions of your TV show with actors from other countries...
Principal Skinner? I object to this arbitrary use of power and request I be taken off the list.
Thank you.
That sermon really inspired me. This whole Christmas has been about money...
But I'm going to give gifts that aren't expensive and come from the heart.
Um, when a woman talks, she just wants to be heard.
Mr. Flanders, where's your store?
No thanks.
If I have to give presents, I'll give presents with a purpose. One for Maggie... check.
All that's left is Bart.
No, no, no, no, no, no... ah, perfect!
An Angelica Button wizard robe... with wand pocket!
Professor Digglesby's wand! Now I have every wizarding stick from the Spells and Potions Department of Wagglepoofs Academy!
I know this Christmas has been a little rocky even for the Simpsons. But I think these gifts born of thought and love will restore the balance of prajna and samsara, I mean holly and jolly.
Now dad, I'd like to give you your present.
Even better! They're bags of seeds, so that you can plant a garden and watch it grow.
Dad, stop!
Well, at least you're eating vegetables.
Okay Bart, open your present. It's the one I'm most excited about.
Nothing is easy to wrap. I have trouble with scissors!
What? N.C. Wyeth! These are book illustrations!
Stop it, stop it! Why in the world would you burn a book?
Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury?
How could you burn the present I gave you?
Bart, you were right.
No, about Christmas. So I went out this morning and I got you this.
It's a tablet with books on it, but also apps, like "Worms With Friends."
I sold the gift you gave me.
Get the twist?
Thanks, Bart. This'll make a lot of arctic loons very happy.
If Bart's going, I'm going!
You like this?
They're gonna take Dad! We gotta do something!
It's almost like having Dad here. Only with less growling when I go near his food.
I don't know. It wasn't like Dad was stealing for himself. He created this wonderful experience for the whole town. I just can't imagine anyone turning him in.
Dad! Dad! You're back! You're back!
Wait, I know one place in Springfield that doesn't care about internet piracy laws.
Thanks for taking us in. Our family always appreciates asylum.
The people of Sweden believe all movies should be shared freely.
They've found us!
These people hate my dad. How can they want to make a movie about him?
And the worst one of all is--
Well, both groups claim their intentions are noble, but at the end of the day, they're both trying to steal as much money as they can.
They'll just reboot Radioactive Man in an overpriced new origin issue and get clueless fanboys like you to line up at midnight to buy them.
We'll explain it!
They're giant polluters but the C.E.O. is a woman. It's very vexing.
How does this mean anything when everyone's forced to do it?
Not to.
Dad! Bart's on my side of the seat!
So the rumors are true: Moms can want things.
Hi, Ralph... um, I just wanted to tell you there was a tooth in the valentine you gave me.
I don't need a new Ralph, I like the old one. Happy Valentine's Day!
No Bart, no. Do it and you'll always be known as the kid who ate the dead frog.
That's someone who eats plants.
What? A rule's a rule.
I saw him heading across the field after school with a kid a little bit older and undoubtedly wiser.
That doesn't sound like you.
You know, Bart, just because Diggs is a little different doesn't mean he's not a good person.
I have about eight of them.
Oh, Bart... Diggs' problems don't have easy fixes.
Well... sometimes it helps to know people feel for you. Want a hug?
Pass the peas, please.
We do have them! They're my home screen! Miss Hoover! Once again, the lesson plan I prepared would've covered this topic much better, but I can see...
Miss Hoover?
Bart, that's your sixth taco. You know, Whitman says, "If anything is sacred, the human body is sacred".
Won't those vegetables go bad?
Ew.
Overreactor dot org warns that over half of the vegetables sold in this country are "Genetically Modified Organisms," whose effect on humans is... unknown!
Whoa! Mom, you made me over-swipe!
Mom... can I visit Bob?
Our school cafeteria is serving G.M.O.s -- genetically-modified organisms.
Um... that video seemed a little... unscientific.
Oh my God! It's worse than I thought. Everybody wait here while I do some actual research. Nobody form any opinions while I'm gone.
I say we do not categorically ban genetically modified organisms.
Well, it's nice to see for once a corporation that does good work and cares about people.
You. He's tried to kill you. Me, I think he likes.
And I refuse to concede a mind that thinks so much like mine can be all bad. Mom?
Shut up!
This is the pinnacle of conversation around here.
I SAY ENGINEERED PO-TAY-TO / YOU SAY ENGINEERED PO-TAH-TO... POTATO!
TOMATO!
LET'S SPLICE SOME D.N.A.!
Bob, there's one thing I've gotta know: are you plotting revenge?
Dad!
You already ate all the chocolate bars.
I like the Impressionists.
Bob! You saved me! But how did you get the strength? Calder's work in this period was marked by heavy use of sheet metal painted to look deceptively airy.
Thank you. Answer the question.
Well... there is something I should have told you. You see, it occurred to me that if I can genetically modify fruits and vegetables, why can't I modify... me!
You've been changing your DNA?!
So... how strong are you?
But... but we sang Gershwin together!
Well, I thought it was because it was Tote Bag day.
You're going to take DNA from these historical figures and add it to your own?
More for mom, but yes.
Uh... Bob, you can't kill us without a little singing, right?
To quote Whitman: "This is what you shall do: love the earth and sun and animals, despise riches, stand up for the stupid and crazy..."
What? No!
How veiled?
Mom! Dad! The Retirement Home lost its license and Grampa has nowhere to live!
Dad, did it ever occur to you that we're learning how to take care of you when you're older by watching the way you treat Grampa?
Your Grampa's alive?
O-kay. Well, can you please be nicer to our Grampa? For me? I love Grampa. You may not realize it, but he's a treasure.
Please.
I've never had a pet of my very own! My clock is ticking! I don't wanna be one of those girls who waits till she's sixteen to decide if she's ready, and then it's too late.
"I, Lisa Simpson, hereby promise to take full responsibility for this dog, cat, other.
Oh, my God -- I'm getting a guinea pig! Thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you!
This one whistled at me!
Oh, but that orange guy looks like a pumpkin! But this fella is so fuzzy!
I'm sorry, Mom.
This one's nibbling a sunflower seed! Look at that hair -- Oh, I just wanna comb it forever! Have you seen a pinker nose? I have now!
That one's fur looks like a tuxedo! A Band-Aid on its tail, awww! Albino!
I'm definitely getting this one. Oh, but I forgot about this one! Oh my God I never even saw this one!
Maybe I should get that sick one. If I don't, no one else will. Bart, list your top five, best to worst. No, no, no, no -- worst to best!
I just wish the grey one had the brown one's personality!
Dad, give me your phone. I need to look at the pictures again!
Okay, this is the guinea pig that will make me happy.
I could get two...?
I've tried to give Pokey a perfect replica of his natural habitat:
Peruvian feather grass, an Incan sleeping mat, and a portrait of Marisol Espinoza, the Vice President of Peru.
I wish I could live in there.
Where'd he go?
Nooooo!
Oh my God, he's in the walls!
I hear chewing!
I've lost my guinea pig!
Pokey!
Hey, look... there's a signature that the frame covered up: "Johan Oldenveldt."
Here he is! "Johan Oldenveldt, painter, lived in Amsterdam, Paris... prolific early 20th century naturalist... I think this was painted by someone famous. Maybe it's valuable.
She is?
This is so exciting! My first time establishing provenance!
That's a terrible thing for a father to do.
Hmm... this quaint artist community has gotten a little touristy.
Yes we do. It's a Johan Oldenveldt.
What?
You're a... forger?
What you do is horrible: ripping off geniuses who spent years perfecting their styles.
What!?
Well... no, but now when I look at it all I'll see is a fraud.
But, you still, I mean... I suppose you're right.
Madame Curie, we just might have this one in the bag.
Okay, calm down. Maybe he's talking about Margaret Mead.
No-no-no.
Martin took my topic. What do I do?
Everyone does that.
Okay, Dad's my hero. Why is he my hero?
Near tears.
No!
My hero isn't famous...
...isn't rich...
...and isn't in any history books...
He's my Dad.
He worked two jobs to get me a pony... he started me playing the saxophone you all love...
...and anyone can put a band aid on, but my Dad knows how to take it off so it doesn't hurt.
...And when my Dad was a soccer referee, he had the guts to red card me, his only talking daughter, because he knew I was diving.
In the history of soccer, he's the only parent to ever take sides against his own kid, and he was right. He made me a better person, because that's what heroes do.
That's what heroes do.
Hey, Dad.
Oh, dad, you don't want details. No one wants to see the sausage being made.
Dad, they're offering us an all-expenses paid trip to the greatest sporting event on earth!
I switched with her, Dad.
How'd you eat the meat without the vegetables?
Don't do it, Dad. Don't cheat.
I'm sorry you weren't my first choice. In fact... I had my doubts about using you at all.
You put it on the fridge!
All right, you're hurt. I understand. But when I made you my hero, you lived up to it and more. You became the hero I thought you could be, Dad.
No penalty! He dove, Dad!
I don't know, but she's my new hero.
Wow, the Amazon is just like I pictured it after seeing all those pictures online.
At least we hope it's bottom.
Are you okay?
Don't put more in there!
What record? Stupidest death?
Oh, well, you're very wel--
Actually, I think it--
What does a competitive eater eat?
What does that mean?
Is Kobayashi the number one... um... uh...
I won't be using the correct term then.
Um, why don't I just go sit alone and-- Oh, you're doing it.
Maybe this isn't the sport for you.
Can I join you for lunch?
Um, can I just have a slice?
Beans, beans. We'll do beans.
Maybe you're not cut out for competitive eating.
No, I'm just, I... maybe you just haven't found the right food. Huh? How 'bout ice cream?
Hello?
Dad? Did you just call?
Just the two of us?
I'd love that. See you tonight!
So, Mr. Burns never realized it was Maggie who saved the plant?
I'm fine.
Is that Mom?
Dad, I believe we were on a date.
Lucas! You're not competitive eating anymore?
Well, that's a relief.
What if I just taught you how to whistle?
Oh Dad, you're back! Just in time for my recital!
Wha--?!
Hooray.
See ya, Homer! / Bye, Dad!
Typical Ralph nonsense.
Now that's what I call a modern family.
Can I make an observation?
I'm okay with no friends. It's easier to focus and it'll give me great material for whatever art form I choose. Right now I'm thinking long novella. Goodnight!
After this we'll do makeovers!
Gus Huebner? Is that you?
Are you guys okay?
What's for dinner?
Tumi? But you're from the other second grade. We only come together for tornado drills.
Yeah, it kind of was. But I won't push it, I promise. See ya!
The vintage record store?
At the risk of sounding like a broken record, yes, yes, yes!
It's so much fun to finally have a friend who likes the NPR show "Wait Wait, Don't Tell Me" as much as I do.
Want some more smoothie?
What do you want?
What's the advice?
Oh God, I'm gonna be sick!
Mom paid her to be my friend?
You don't want to be here.
Neither do you!
Mom, how could you pay someone to be my friend?!
Answer me!
I would've found a friend eventually. You couldn't wait a damn decade until I got into college?
I'm gonna tell every psychiatrist I ever go to what you did.
Mom, stop! Stop! Stop! I'm sorry!
Please stop!
I'm fine. Fine! It's funny, but... hurting your feelings made me feel better.
But when I grow up, I'll find other weird kids and we will have the most intense relationships ever. And I'll always love you.
Happy Mother's Day.
Great! But from now on, we have to be totally honest with each other.
Our Lord, Buddha, says the secret of existence is to pass beyond fear.
My brother is about to meet fear, and as usual, he won't pass.
The last day of school. Field Day. WhEN you learn to balance an egg on a spoon...
And run with your leg tied to someone who wouldn't talk to you all year.
Hey! Are you coming to the afterschool pool party?
Bart faced a terrible choice: take a beating with his friend or slither off like a coward. And like he did with every multiple choice question he ever saw, Bart chose "B."
Bart won a blue ribbon... but was it worth it?
Mom! I'm narrating!
Fine.
As the pin on the back of the blue ribbon made its way through Bart's shirt and into its housing, the seeds of his comeuppance flew out of the woods.
While Bart was being outwitted by a baby, something was coming to a boil in our Pop's brainpan.
Fourth of July fireworks were a different story. They meant more to my Dad than my Mom could ever know.
It was the one night of every year that he never heard his parents argue. He figured it was because they loved the fireworks just as much as he did.
With his mom gone, Homer needed a hero. And no one was a bigger hero than the magical little man behind the controls.
Bart knew the worst thing to do was pile lie upon lie, and that's exactly what he did.
So Bart was revealed as a coward, and now it seemed like the whole world was against him.
While Bart was in Hell, Homer was happily surrounded by fire and brimstone.
So Milhouse got the redemption he deserved... and so, in a way, did Bart.
Which meant that at long last, my brother could get a good night's sleep.
Three feet, nine inches. That should do it.
Okay, enough theory.
Krusty's getting roasted tonight.
If you don't let us watch, we'll just go to a house where some more permissive parents will.
Dad, are you okay?
Dad, you're eating too much! I'm worried about your health! I don't wanna lose you!
Oh no.
Mom? Dad?
I've been listening, and Dad stops breathing for as long as five minutes. Mind if I sleep with you guys and keep an eye on him?
Wrapping you in bubble wrap. I can't always be around to protect you, so it will.
I guess you're right.
That's all I wanted: a tiny bit of control.
I know, but they're not gonna waste a whole Saturday inside.
I've got an idea... but I'll need that broccoli.
These two fruit smoothies look and taste exactly the same. One of them, however, has the broccoli blended in.
Bart picks one of the smoothies and drinks it -- maybe he had the broccoli, maybe he didn't. No one knows, so neither of you has given in, and this horrible impasse can come to an end.
Mom, it's trash talk. You know how guys say mean things to their friends, the way women say nice things to their enemies.
She's under a lot of stress. Her husband's at sea.
Dad, dogs don't know when to stop eating.
Hey mom, can you pack me a dozen sandwiches in my lunch tomorrow? Meat, no meat, it's all good.
No, whenever anything bothers me I harmlessly vent it to Maggie.
Kids love 'em. We trade them at school.
Wow, Mom! You're gonna open a sandwich store?!
What's wrong?
This is so sad. In his homeland, Dad was a nuclear engineer.
No, no. You want to make American kids work?
Um, I'm not sure this is the best use of my skills.
One jumbo Joe to go!
One Florence Nightingale in a box and make it snappy!
Really Bart?
Hm, looks like ancient Aramaic. Fortunately, I have an app for that.
Hey!
Docetism?
Making fun of someone's clothes. How original.
It's true! It would be a cold day in Hell when I was popular.
Bart! I found a portal back to Earth.
No! No! No! No! That's Super Hell!
Dad, the TV's screwed up. It only plays "Married... With Children."
This house is haunted!
Noble spirits, your time has passed.
That was unmotivated.
Shut up!
Well, I guess you and I are in charge now, Bart. But if we split the chores, I'm sure we can... what are you doing?!
Oh no! You're not leaving me to clean this up!
Flaming tap water. I saw something about that in a documentary...
Sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, cute! This one...
Maybe a satellite picture will give us a clue.
This is clearly a fracking site. How are they keeping people away?
It's a terrific sport that--
This whole building is just a façade for a drilling operation.
Stopping Mr. Burns may be beyond the power of an eight-year-old girl with a book report due on "Beezus and Ramona." But I know someone who can help...
The first female speaker of the state assembly...
A politician who would never ignore a fellow environmentalist in need... my hero...
Maxine Lombard.
Assemblywoman Lombard! You got my emails!
How could you sell fracking for Mr. Burns?
I am judging you.
Judge-judge-judge--
WHAT!?!?
Y-e-e-e-s.
Probably just another piece of America's space junk falling out of orbit.
You know, they look a little similar.
A little lazy if you ask me.
Regardless, I see no reason to believe that "Bender" is from the future. Robotic technology today is very advanced.
It's not my birthday. Although Maggie's is pretty soon.
This is the robot who claims to be from the future.
What stopped you, Bender? Asimov's three laws of robotics?
Wait, stop! Why must you kill my Dad? Especially when cheeseburgers are doing the work for you?
Professor Farnsworth, I'm dying to know how you got here. Was it a time machine?
That's it! All we have to do is dig up the time capsule!
But you just said that--
What a surprise -- it's Bart.
I can't believe you're all giving up without a fight.
Let me take care of that. If there's one thing I know how to do, it's manipulate Barts.
Dad, we have beer in our time!
Attention Goblins: Madison Cube Garden is filled with Butterfinger bars. And people are laying fingers all over them.
They're evolving! Wow. That's a first for you, Bart.
Wait, wait, wait! You're the portal. How are you going to get to the future?
Why are you wearing your hat at dinner?
We're sorry.
Excuse me, but Buzzard's Roost is a converted parking lot.
Parking lot.
Parking lot.
Hello? Hello? Is everything okay?
Excuse me, you ruined my report.
Oh! Yippee! Fourth-grade A!
Gosh... that was a hard sleeping bag to roll up.
A world of anarchic free expression!
I'm home!
So many musical choices!
A brass band... barbershop quintet?... the human kazoo... ooh, a drum circle!
Oh no! King Toot's is closed! Dad, you're gonna have to take me to the... big box music store.
Look at all these monstrosities.
(IMPRESSED NOISE
It's so cool to have another musician in the family!
Uh, well to truly master an instrument you'll need years of--
Yeah, you really get that it's all about the music.
Dad, you shouldn't be jealous of Apu. Remember, it's all about the music.
Wow, he's right.
Mom, where's Dad?
Well, the story of jazz starts with the tresillo, the most prevalent duple-pulse rhythmic cell in sub-Saharan African music, but the rest will have to wait. Bart, Bart, I hear Mom sobbing and I don't know where Dad is!
Bart! This is the year I've got to nail Christmas. I don't want to be a jaded ten-year-old like you!
Mom, I'm just a kid. But I say if Dad isn't here Christmas morning, that's the kind of thing families never recover from.
I'm afraid we've awoken a needy giant.
Bart! You know you can't open a present till Mom and Dad wake up!
Oops. So did mine.
I got a chemistry set!
Are we there yet? Are we there yet?
Are we there yet?
Are we there yet? Are we there yet?
Are we there yet? Are we there yet?
Are we there yet? Are we there yet?
Are we there yet?
This is us.
Are we there yet? Are we there yet?
Whoa, this place sure has changed since Dizznee bought the rights to Cosmic Wars.
They revamped this ride because of massive complaints from two people.
We have been here six hours and the coolest thing we've done is stand in the Cool Zone.
Dad, I don't know about this. It's not on the park map.
We've left Earth's atmosphere!
Are we there yet? Are we there yet?
Are we there yet?
Are we truly in space? And if so, why?
Why does the last thing you say sound so ominous?
You mean like Europeans were to the Native Americans? Or the Belgians were to the Congo?
Now what?
Are there any side effects?
So, you use a lot of solar energy?
Why are you sharing all of this with us?
Right hand red!
I win, I think.
Thanks.
I thought it was a ball!
Here you go.
Now do you see why I'm a vegetarian, Dad?
It's called a knot.
Knot with a K.
That's correct.
This system is really rigged against us.
Um, are you sure you don't want to try me again?
Really? But I thought...
Right. Conquering.
Well, I guess we've learned that of all the countless planets in the universe, we have evolved into the most inedible species. Like three bean salad at a barbecue, we will remain untouched.
I thought we weren't allowed to do homework at the table.
I knew he wasn't gonna like the stack parking.
You know, Dad, studies show being hypnotized makes you more efficient.
I just wanted to see him cluck like a chicken.
Mom, Dad's been hypnotized to think he was ten!
So... where is he gonna sleep?
I'm done.
Not right now.
Listen, Homer. I just want to take advantage of this opportunity to have you enjoy my saxophone with me.
I've been emotionally dealing with that all week. So, yes.
Look, Dad had to get cured some time. There's nothing we can do about it.
Whoa! Looks like our bird house is benefitting from positive word of beak.
A bald eagle!
No! Let's take the eagle to Shelbyville Animal Rescue. Where you took that injured hummingbird you found on the front lawn.
Or, maybe we can nurse him back to health and set him free in the wild.
Dad no! Elon Musk is possibly the greatest living inventor!
His company perfected electric cars and then gave away the patents! He changed the way Hollywood drives!
That's so sad. Maybe we're the same, two lost ships in the intellectual sea, each of whom could inspire the other to...
Hi, I didn't want to miss one more chance to spend time with Mr. Musk. It is such an honor.
He is. And may I save that paper?
No ideas? Oh, that's sad.
That's even worse!
He's taking your Homer-isms and turning them into his own great ideas! This is the most inspirational moment of my life, but, unfortunately, this is my stop.
Bye!
Bart, what are you doing?
Foolish boy. You'll never guess Elon Musk's master password.
I just wanted to see if there was a better life. Even for a little bit.
Mr. Musk, before you go, is there anything you could do to give a little girl hope that the world of the future won't be as grim as all our current movies forecast?
I guess humanity wants its change one birdhouse at a time.
Hm. For a man who likes electric cars, he sure burns a lot of rocket fuel.
What's wrong, Dad?
I still believe in this town... a town that deserves its own original song! And as an aspiring musician with off-Broadway dreams, I'm the one to write it!
Let's see... What rhymes with "Jebediah"?
How about "Patty and Selma"?
Mr. Teeny?
You've got a gift!
Yeah, with that mental patient who thought he was Michael Jackson.
Bart, I need your help to write a new anthem for Springfield. Will you team up with me?
Uh, I'll make brownies later.
I think we might just make a good team. Like Maggie and Grampa.
We did it! We wrote an awesome song!
Should we hug?
That works.
BUT TO BE FRANK, THERE'S NOT A LOT TO RECOMMEND IT...
WE'VE GOT A BIG SINKHOLE...
HASHTAG "SPRINGFIELD PRIDE" HAS NEVER EVER TREND-ED.
BUT WHEN YOU THINK OF THE THINGS WE LACK...
Mom, what's wrong?
Do you really think that we can write a song that does that?
Well, it would've helped if you hadn't crumpled up all the paper before we wrote anything on it.
Take it, Bart!
I gave it to you!
We couldn't write a song. We're one-hit wonders! But, is that such a crime? Look at J.D. Salinger.
Rubik's Cube!
Charles M. Schulz.
Well you're the only "gangsta" I know with a nine o'clock bedtime!
Ooh, Mom. Someone wants you to give them a ride.
Well, despite all that, today's gonna be fun, Dad! Will there be lots of other girls there?
Is it called the cooling tower because there's--
Dad, do you have anything I can eat?
Wow, Dad! Thank you!
Eight.
You're talking to the girl who wants a career in jazz.
You never let me tell!
What percentage of prayers really come true?
--but she hasn't come home yet and we're worried she's in trouble!
I'm telling mom about how the school freezer broke and they had to cook all the tater tots and the teachers took the extra tots home in manila envelopes!
Cook all the tater tots! / There were too many tots! / And the teachers took them home in manila envelopes! / I hate you!
I can't believe you're gambling.
I know how much to tip a waiter.
Mom's counting cards at the casino!
But I really want a pony and I've been really, really good this year.
Nice try, Dad.
Ooh.
I do!
But Mom had to spend all the Christmas money having it surgically removed.
Daddy! We're so glad to see you!
Can we go too, Dad?
Way to go, Dad.
Oh, no!
Yay!
What, Aunt Patty?
Well I wish you wouldn't because aside from the fact that he has the same frailties as all human beings, he's the only father I have. Therefore he is my model of manhood and my estimation of him will govern the prospects of my adult relationships. So I hope you bear in mind that any knock at him is a knock at me. And I am far to young to defend myself against such onslaughts.
A dog! All right, Dad!
So love at first sight is possible.
What's his name?
RUDOLPH THE RED NOSED REINDEER / HAD A VERY SHINY NOSE / AND IF YOU EVER SAW IT / YOU WOULD EVEN SAY IT GLOWED
ALL OF THE OTHER REINDEER / USED TO LAUGH AND CALL HIM NAMES...
Like Shine-ola!
THEY NEVER LET POOR RUDOLPH / JOIN IN ANY REINDEER GAMES...
THEN ONE FOGGY CHRISTMAS EVE / SANTA CAME TO SAY...
THEN ALL THE REINDEER LOVED HIM / AS THEY SHOUTED OUT WITH GLEE / RUDOLPH THE RED NOSED REINDEER / YOU'LL GO DOWN IN HISTORY...
Yeah, Mom, hurry up.
Nurturing.
Id. Triple word score.
Not I.D., Dad. Id. It's a word.
Yeah, Bart. You're supposed to be developing verbal abilities for your big aptitude test tomorrow.
"Id. Along with the ego and the superego, one of three components of the psyche."
I don't care what that stupid test says, Bart. You're a dimwit.
He's the bullfighter.
Hey, lookin' good, Bart.
I think Bart's stupid again, Mom.
Here's a good job at the fireworks factory.
How 'bout this: Supervising Technician at the toxic waste dump.
Yeah, Dad. You can do it!
Dad, eat something. It's got mustard on it.
I don't know what else to do.
We've been robbed!
Look what I found.
Yeah!
All right, Dad!
What, Dad?
Wow!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Go, Dad!
Yeah!
Aha!
We were fighting over which one of us loves you more.
No, you do!
Yes, you do!
Tough choice.
Hey Bart, last one in the fountain's a rotten egg!
Me first!
No, me!
Me!
This is where you belong.
Hey!
Happy, Dad?
Good. Commence shovelling.
Amen. Let's eat.
The sad truth is all families are like us.
The dad has a shirt on.
What are they doing?
Where's he going?
You're sending us to a doctor who advertises on pro wrestling?
Why can't we have a meeting when you're watching TV?
Hey!
I guess I'd have needed a partial scholarship.
No, Dad! Please don't pawn the TV!
There go my young-girl dreams of Vassar.
We would if we had one.
Ogre is such a strong word.
Arrrgh!
So did mine.
Arrrgh!
Arrrgh!
Arrrgh!
It's not the money as much as the feeling that we earned it.
Keep your greasy mitts outta there.
It's Mrs. Hoover's birthday!
No there aren't.
I'm not greasing the wheels, Dad. I like my teacher.
Dad, I get good grades 'cause I'm smart and I pay attention and I study hard.
Oh, brother.
Here, Otto, I made an extra one for you.
You're welcome.
Forget it.
Tell me more.
You'll never get one now, Mr. Name-caller.
You weren't thinking, were you?
I'm not a sniveling toad, am I?
I'm not a little egg sucker, am I?
Then what am I?
What do you like best about me?
Well... hm...
Open your mouth, and close your eyes, and you will get a big surprise.
Look, Janey, cupcakes.
Hey! Give those back!
Don't Bart! He's a friend of Nelson Muntz.
Does, too.
Hey, everybody. Here comes my brother, Bart the bully­ killer!
Bart, here's that cupcake you wanted. I can't help but think if I had just given it to you in the first place, this whole horrible tragedy could have been avoided. I know you can't eat it now, so I'll just place it lovingly on your forehead. .
Bart, you can't go on like this.
Why don't you go see Grampa?
He'll give you good advice. He's the toughest Simpson alive.
Yeah, remember the fight he put up when we put him in the home?
Eww! Knock it off!
But, Mr. Largo, that's what my country's all about.
Oh, Dad...
Here.
Just take mine. A simple cupcake will bring me no pleasure.
I'm wailing out for the homeless family living out of its car. The Iowa farmer whose land has been taken away by unfeeling bureaucrats. The West Virginia coal miner, coughing up his...
Every day at noon a bell rings and they herd us in here for feeding time. And we sit around like cattle, chewing our cuds, dreading the inevitable...
I choose not to participate.
In other words, to dodge the ball.
I'm too sad.
It's not that kind of sad. I'm sorry, Dad, but you wouldn't understand.
I'm just wondering, what's the point? Would it make any difference at all if I never existed? How can we sleep at night when there's so much suffering in the world?
Sorry, Dad. I know you mean well.
No. Not really.
So typical of Bart. All he thinks about is himself.
Is not.
Is not.
Is not.
No, Maggie! Come here, girl. Come to me.
No, Maggie, don't go for the glitter. Look for substance.
All right Maggie, just go to Bart.
I was just playing the blues... ...Dad.
No, that's okay, Dad. I'll just work on my fingering. Unless my fingers clacking on the keys is too loud for you.
I've got to find that sound.
That was beautiful. What's it called?
Thanks, Mr. Murphy.
Ew! How'd you get a name like that?
Yeah.
I have problems, too.
Okay.
"I got a bratty brother / He bugs me every day / And this mornin' my own mother, she gave my last cupcake away! / My Dad acts like he belongs... he belongs in the zoo / I'm the sa...dest kid in grade number two."
Yeah, but I don't feel any better.
But Mom, can't I... stay a little longer?
I don't want your pity.
How?
But I don't feel like smiling.
I feel more popular already.
Thanks.
Not me.
Uh-huh.
Okay.
No, sir.
Wow, Mom.
Okay, Mom.
I feel like smiling.
This is better than our house!
No.
No.
No.
We're playing "What's that odor?".
You win, Bart.
Mom, I'm scared.
Yes!!!
Aaaaaahhhhhhh!!!!
The Simpsons have entered the forest.
Look, Maggie! Birdies!
You are?
Remember, Dad. The handle of the Big Dipper points to the North Star.
Should Maggie be going with them, Mom?
I hope Maggie and the boys are all right.
Yeah, I suppose so. Night Mom.
Ready for inspection, Mom.
What about my cat, Snowball?
The answers to deep theological questions..
Valhalla is where Vikings go when they die.
I think she likes my present better.
It's a symbol of what we can all do if we put our minds to it.
It's so awful.
Hey Bart, where you going?
Why don't you watch "Krusty The Clown"?
This is gonna be the best birthday breakfast Mom ever had.
Maybe one more.
I hope she likes the presents we got her.
Well, I think she's gonna like my hand-made birthday card better.
Happy birthday!
Here's your birthday breakfast!
No!
Yeah, what'd you get?
I think he forgot, Mom.
Does, too.
Then how comes she's not putting on any of your perfume?
Oh, brother.
Don't be scared, Dad. It's not so hard taking care of us.
Mm! Delicioso!
"LULLABY AND GOOD NIGHT / GO TO BED AND SLEEP TIGHT / CLOSE YOUR EYES, START TO YAWN / PLEASANT DREAMS UNTIL THE DAWN."
Are you going bowling again tonight, Mom?
Oh, Bart, don't you see? This is what psychologists call over-compensation. Mom is racked with guilt because her marriage is failing.
Bart, I read about what happens to kids whose parents no longer love and cherish each other. They go through eight separate stages. Right now, I'm in Stage Three, fear. You're in Stage Two, denial.
Yes, you are.
Yes, you are.
I stand corrected.
Frightened, Bart? Welcome to Stage Three: Fear.
Sorry, Bart. I'd love to help you but I'm mired in Stage Five, self-pity.
Female carrier, Bart.
Ewww, gross.
Mom, Bart was taking a picture of his butt.
Yay! Fried shrimp!
Ewwwww!
Yeah. Eat it, Bart.
I wonder when Dad's coming home?
Hi, Daddy.
Still kinda ticked off.
Dad!
What do you know about France?
'Bye, Bart.
You know, in Albania the unit of currency is called the lek.
And the national flag is a two-headed eagle on a red field.
And the main export is furious political thought.
I'm defending a country where people can think and act and worship any way they want.
Can, too.
Can, too.
Well, okay.
Your paper-thin commitment to your children sends shivers down my spine. May I be excused?
Hi, Sideshow Bob.
Goodbye Adil. Have a nice trip.
Look, Mom. There he is.
He brought us gifts. His first unselfish act.
Bart, I have something to say that's gonna bother me if I don't say it... It's good to see you.
With all our hearts!
We'd kill ourselves!
The cannon. The cannon. The cannon. The cannon.
I didn't do it!
If cartoons were meant for adults, they'd put them on in prime time.
Oh no!
His face is so flesh-colored and sad.
I'm watching Sideshow Bob. You know, he's a lot less patronizing than Krusty used to be.
Snap out of it, Bart. Face the facts. All those hours we spent staring at Krusty, we were staring at a crook.
Oh, Bart.
You do? Why?
No, why?
Yeah man.
Bart, look!
Come on, Bart. The tape showed that the robber heated up a burrito.
Don't you remember the get-well card we sent to Krusty? It was after his heart attack, when he had a pacemaker put in.
Wait a minute. Krusty can't read.
No! Don't you get it, Bart? How could Krusty have been reading a magazine if he can't read?
Bart, I'm starting to think you're right. Krusty was framed. Did he have any enemies?
Sideshow Bob!
Come on, Bart. Go with the flow.
With all our hearts!
Bart, there's one left and it's mine!
Awww, Dad.
Uh-oh, school bus.
We got money!
Oh, come on, Bart, not again.
Wow, a quarter past six. What's keeping Dad?
Hey, Mom.
Mom, you look so glamorous.
Dad dances?
Oh, boy, "The Happy Little Elves Meet The Curious Bear Cub"!
But I want to see what happens.
Oh, no!
Bart, you're just like Chilly, the elf who cannot love.
Oh, no, Bart, we'll have nightmares.
Botz.
One eight hundred you snitch, no, you... squeal...
Come on, come on.
Finally!
I'm calling to report the Babysitter Bandit. She's in our house right --
He isn't.
Quiet, Bart. Let's make the best of this.
Maggie, Maggie.
Maggie, wanna watch "The Happy Little Elves" again?
Okay, but you have to untie me first.
We caught her! We caught the Babysitter Bandit! She's tied up at our house right now!
Is there a reward? If she's convicted, we get T-shirts.
He doesn't care, Mom.
Well, okay. I got an A on my vocabulary test.
Everyone knows you're faking it, Bart.
You're gonna have to fail that history test sooner or later.
Prayer, the last refuge of a scoundrel.
I heard you last night, Bart. You prayed for this. Now your prayers have been answered. I'm no theologian. I don't know who or what God is exactly. All I know is He's a force more powerful than Mom and Dad put together and you owe him big.
An absence of mood swings and some stability in my life.
Okay.
Dad is taking this in a less than heroic fashion.
... and the policeman on the other end of the phone said, "We have traced the call. It's coming from the floor below you. Get out of the house!" But it was too late. End of story.
Is too.
Is too.
Is too.
Fine. Then you tell one scarier.
Oh, brother.
Ow! Mom! Bart threw a book at me.
Did too.
Did too.
It looks like a vortex -- a gateway into another dimension.
Quit throwing your garbage into our dimension.
I can feel an evil presence in this house.
Sorry... Sorry Bart. sorry, mom... sorry Maggie... sorry Lisa.
That's okay.
Mom! Dad! Look!
It's an ancient Indian burial ground.
Why are you trying to scare us? Are you trying to keep us from getting close to you... maybe even loving you?
It chose to destroy itself rather than live with us. You can't help but feel a little rejected.
That wasn't scary at all, Bart.
Heh... heh... heh.
Look, I know that to you we Simpsons are a lower order of life. We face that prejudice every day of our lives, but we are happy on our little planet. We throw ourselves on your mercy. Please return us to...
Fried shrimp.
There's something not quite right about this.
Hey, how come we never see you guys eat?
Stop!
Don't you see what's happening here? They're fattening us up so they can eat us.
If you don't believe me, look at this book I found.
Wait a minute!
Well, why were you trying to make us eat all the time?
There were monsters on that ship. And truly we were them.
For your information, I'm about to read you a classic tale of terror by Edgar Allan Poe.
Don't worry, Bart. You won't learn anything.
It's called, "The Raven."
Once upon a midnight dreary,
while I pondered, weak and weary,
Bart, he's establishing mood.
What?
Bart! Stop it. He says "nevermore". That's all he'll ever say.
Well, it was written in 1845. Maybe people were easier to scare back then.
Not yet, sir.
My brother's using worms but I who feel that tranquility far outweighs the actual catching of fish, am using nothing.
Try not to spill anything, Dad.
Oooo, a political discussion at our table. I feel like a Kennedy.
"Mr. Burns, your campaign seems to have the momentum of a runaway freight train. Why are you so popular?"
Hmmm. Well as long as I'm asking something, can I ask him to assuage my fears that he's contaminating the planet in a manner that may one day render it uninhabitable?
Yes, sir. A very inane one. Mr. Burns, your campaign seems to have the momentum of a runaway freight train. Why are you so popular?
Oh Mom, that felt awful.
But Mom, we've become the tools of evil.
Mr. Burns, I hardly see what destroying our meager possessions is going to accomplish.
I can't think of a better place to spend a balmy summer's night than the old ball yard. There's just the green grass of the outfield, the crushed brick of the infield, and the white chalk lines that divide the man from the little boy.
Yeah, you throw like me.
We want a catcher / Not a belly scratcher!
Our lives have taken an odd turn.
I can't leave Springfield. I was born here and I thought I would die here.
But, Dad. We're simple people with simple values. Capital City is too big and too complex. Everyone in Springfield knows us and has forgiven us.
Whatever doesn't kill me can only make me stronger.
I can't help but feel that if we had gotten to know each other better, my leaving would actually have meant something.
The Pennyloafer!
Capital City -- yeah!
There he is!
Mom, what's he doing wrong?
But I can't go back! Not after I've seen the bright lights of Capital City. I'll wither and die like a hothouse flower.
Read the bosom part again, Dad.
And I'm studying for the Math Fair. If I win, I'll bring home a brand new protractor.
Hi, Bart. What're you doing?
Well, a blockaded bishop is of little value, but I think you're referring to a pawn.
I know. It's times like this that I'm thankful Dad has little to no interest in almost everything I do. Bart, I think I can help you.
Our journey begins here at the library.
Hi, Mrs. Norton.
Hi, Ralph.
Hey, gang. Okay, Bart, this is the card catalog.
Let's see, "golf"... Anecdotes, Eisenhower and, Fashion, Humor, Japanese Obsession With... ah, here it is. Putting.
And, finally, the most important book of all, The Tao Te Ching by Lao Tzu.
Bart, we're just gonna borrow them.
I want you to shut off the logical part of your mind.
Embrace nothingness.
Become like an uncarved stone.
Bart! You're just pretending to know what I'm talking about.
Well, it's very frustrating.
Bart, I have a riddle for you: What's the sound of one hand clapping?
No, Bart. It's a three-thousand-year-old riddle with no answer. It's supposed to clear your mind of conscious thought.
Let's try another one: If a tree falls in the woods and no one's around, does it make a sound?
But Bart, how can a sound exist if there's no one there to hear it?
It is time.
The basis of this game seems to be simple geometry. All you have to do is hit the ball here.
Dad!
Dad!
Eighth hole.
Twelfth hole.
Nirvana.
Mom, Bart is on a strict diet of complex carbohydrates. Steak will make him logy.
Oatmeal.
Oats are what a champion thoroughbred eats before he or she wins the Kentucky Derby.
Bart, having never received any words of encouragement myself, I'm not sure how they're supposed to sound. But here goes. I believe in you.
Why do I get the feeling that someday I'll be describing this to a psychiatrist?
Bart, cut it out!
It's not yours, Bart! This is family glue!
Dad, this isn't about glue. It's about territoriality. He only wants the glue because I'm using it.
Here.
Maggie, I'm about to unveil my centerpiece to the family!
It's a tribute to the trailblazing women who made our country great... See, there's Georgia O'Keefe... Susan B. Anthony... and this is Marjorie Stoneman Douglas. I'm sure you haven't heard of her, but she worked her whole life to preserve the Florida Everglades.
As one of the Simpson women, would you like to contribute something to it?
Oh, thank you.
I couldn't tell you how many hours. It was a labor of love. It's my homage to some American heroes who may not have fought in any wars, but who nevertheless...
It's the centerpiece, Bart!
Hey, Bart, stop it!
Mom!
Baaart! You're wrecking it! LET GO! I worked forever on this!
BAAARRTT!
You don't even care! You don't even care!
That's all right.
Mom, I poured my heart into that centerpiece! Things like that always happen in this family!
I saw the best meals of my generation destroyed by the madness of my brother / My soul carved in slices by spikey-haired demons...
"Howl of the Unappreciated", by Lisa Simpson. "I saw the best meal"...
Welcome back. Bart! I'm sorry we had such a terrible fight.
Yeah, beg me, Bart. Beg me!
Dear Log, my brother is still missing, and maybe it's my fault because I failed to take his abuse with good humor. I miss him so much already, that I don't know...
Bart...?! Where are you?
Bart, what are you doing up here? Everybody's worried.
Yes.
Bart, why did you burn my centerpiece?
Was it because you hate me, or because you're bad?
Just tell me you're sorry.
Bart, the only reason to apologize is if you look deep down inside yourself and you find a spot, something you wish wasn't there, because you feel bad you hurt your sister's feelings.
Just look!
Apology accepted.
Yes, but I'm afraid the forces of history have changed wrestling, perhaps forever.
Oh, Bart, I hope you're not taking this seriously. Even a five-year-old knows that this is as choreographed as any ballet.
Aren't you forgetting something?
I'll be playing my first solo. If you miss it on Saturday, I'd advise you to start looking for a child therapist on Sunday.
I reached him.
Dad?
Another barrier broken. Right on, sister!
Stop!
Springfield Gorge? Bart, you'll be killed!
Please, before you do anything, there's someone I'd like you to talk to.
Thank you for arranging this, Dr. Hibbert.
Mr. Murdock, my brother is thinking about jumping Springfield Gorge on a skateboard.
But Captain Murdock!
I'm sorry, Bart. But if you got hurt or died, despite the extra attention I'd receive, I'd miss you.
Hey, Mom. What're doing?/We were watching that!
But, Mom! If you take our cartoons away, we'll grow up without a sense of humor and be robots.
And I'm going over to Janey's again. We're going to be... um... making the most of our childhood years.
We will.
There's peas everywhere.
There she is!
All right!
Itchy and Scratchy seem to have lost their edge.
Maybe there's something else to do on this planet.
And Janey and I went bird watching. We saw a grackle.
Okay. May we please be excused?
Excuse me, Mr. Hutz. Are you a shyster?
Hello, Dr. Hibbert.
Dad, may I please make an observation?
I think this is all a charade to make Bart look more injured than he really is.
Thursday -- meatloaf night. As it was, is now, and ever shall be.
Well, you're always trying to teach me to be opened-minded, try new things, live life to the...
Friday night, pork chops. From cradle to grave... etched in stone in God's library somewhere...
Anywhere but hamburgers, pizza or fried chicken.
As usual, the playground has the facts right, but missed the point entirely. Sushi is considered quite a delicacy.
Please, Dad. This argument humiliates us both.
Nothing, but you might say yes the ninety-ninth time.
Please, Dad.
Please, Dad.
Please, Dad.
Please, Dad.
Please, Dad.
Please, Dad...please
Make it two.
Shaft.
Shaft.
Shut your mouth!
I can dig it!
John Shaft.
Hi, Dad. Want me to cut out this infernal racket?
Why?
Why are we using the good china?
Why are we waiting for Dad?
Dad, do something!
No!
How romantic.
It's so hard to picture you two then. Hand in hand at the crossroads of life. There are so many questions.
Okay. Uh... how did Dad propose to you?
So, it was love at first sight.
Why you cagey ol' dog.
Everything I know tells me this story doesn't end with us sitting here, and you telling it to us.
Cable? / Us? / Wow! / We have cable!
Dad, are you sure this isn't stealing?
Mom, what are you doing?
Well, don't you remember the Eighth Commandment?
Thou shalt not steal!
Dad, why is the world such a cesspool of corruption?
Well, at Sunday School we learned that stealing is a sin.
But everybody does it! I mean, we're stealing cable as we speak.
No.
No, I didn't.
Dad, I think that's pretty spurious.
So, even if a man takes bread to feed his starving family, that would be stealing?
I see.
Maybe. I don't watch him every minute. But what I am sure of is, we're getting cable for free.
Should I have my father arrested?
Thank you, Reverend Lovejoy.
Hi, Dad. I think stealing cable is wrong. So I'm choosing not to watch it in the hope that others will follow my example. It's the last you'll hear from me on the matter. Thank you for your time.
Sorry, I'd rather go to heaven.
I just want to call attention to the fact that I'm not watching this fight. It's my form of non-violent protest.
Thanks, Mom. It doesn't seem to be going very well.
Dad, we may have saved your soul.
We're really proud of you, Dad.
Go for it Dad!
Poor Brandy. Aunt Selma, do you think you'll ever get married?
No. And, since I'm sure that you'd only resent the pity of an eight-year-old niece, I'll simply hope that you're one of the statistically insignificant forty-year-old single women who ever find their fair Prince.
Dad, Bart ate a green bean during the blessing.
Eating is worse than opening eyes.
Is too.
Is too.
Is too.
Da-ad!...
We didn't say anything.
A long-lost half-brother. How Dickensian!
Are we there yet? Are we there yet? Are we there yet?
Heehaw!
Hello, Mr. Powell
No, sir. I can assure you I am not.
Marco!
Marco!
Watch me dive! Watch me dive! Watch me dive!
You weren't watching! You weren't watching! You weren't watching!
I want to go on a pony ride, Unky Herb.
Pony ride!
Pony ride!
Pony ride! Boat ride! Pony ride! Boat ride!
What is it Unky Herb?
The mouse is named Itchy.
The cat is named Scratchy.
And they're not shy about expressing it.
Hello there. Do you miss the Antarctic?
Bye, Unky Herb.
His life was an unbridled success until he found out he was a Simpson.
I'll make it, Mom. Just tape my lunch box to my hand.
If Bart stays home, I'm going to school.
Get my homework from Mrs. Hoover.
Oh, no. I don't want to fall behind my class.
Arithmetic.
Yuck. Quit it, Dad.
Wow. Neat. It smells historic.
Oh, but I don't know how to sew.
Very impressive!
Ow!
Ew.
Keep on truckin'? What does that mean?
Ooh... phonics, functions, vocabulary, remedial reading? Oh, do your own homework, Bart!
Eight. Thanks, Dad.
Gee, is it always this good?
Bad dog! Don't worry Snowball. You're safe with me.
Mom, what will we do if Santa's Little Helper doesn't learn anything in obedience school?
Look, Mom, I finished my patch. It depicts the two greatest musical influences in my life.
On the left is Mr. Largo, my music teacher at school. He taught me that even the noblest concerto can be drained of its beauty and soul. And on the right is Bleeding Gums Murphy. He taught me that music is like a fire in your belly that comes out of your mouth, so you better stick an instrument in front of it.
And look!
I've suffered as much as anyone at the paws of this dog. But when I look into his vacant brown eyes, I just can't bear to let him go. I'm sure Mom agrees with me.
Dad, this is our pet. We can question his integrity and disposition, but we can't question his heart. Are you trying to teach us that the way to solve a problem with something you love is to throw it away?
Yea!
Sewing a new quilt. You know, it's one thing to be a link in a chain. It's another to start one of your own.
This patch commemorates the destruction of the old quilt.
Bart, he's not gonna learn it now. Don't spend your last hours together tormenting the poor creature. Have some fun, frolic with him. Go get it, boy!
Huh uh, he smells more like a photo lab.
To the pony rides.
Yes!
That's gross.
Dad, it's just a dumb mud puddle.
Discount Lion Safari!
Discount Lion Safari!
Do not feed animals. Do not allow animals in the car. Do not make eye contact with animals.
It seems that most of the animals are sleeping.
Yeah, Bart, get out and push.
Challenge accepted!
Grampa, that's the noblest thought that's ever been expressed at this table.
I don't deserve it, Grampa. No one here does. The people who deserve it are on the streets and they're in the slums. They're little children who need more library books and families who can't make ends meet. Of course, if you really wanted to, you could buy me a pony.
I'll name her Princess and I'll ride her every day.
This is a rather shameless promotion.
Me too.
Of course.
Will you take us to Mt. Splashmore?
Thanks, Dad.
It is back.
Whoooooaaaa!
Mommy! I want my mommy!
Forgive us, Dad, but it takes time to properly sugarcoat a response.
Mom, these are really good. While I know first-hand how fragile young talent is, I'd love to hear the particulars of how your gift was squashed.
Oh Mom, I can't believe you gave up painting because of one small-minded art teacher.
And what was Ringo's response?
Maybe you could take a class at Springfield Community College.
My mother would like to enroll in "Painting From Life, 2-B".
Mom...
Lincoln Lincoln I been thinkin' what the hell have you been drinkin'? / Is it water is it wine? / Oh my God it's turpentine! / Faster! Faster!
Pass the moo juice.
Way to go, Dad.
I was just practicing.
My god, she's been dumped again.
I believe I know the answer.
Lisa Simpson.
Um, one: Your belt buckle says "State of Texas", but Texas wasn't a state until 1845.
Two: the revolver wasn't invented until 1835.
Three: You seem to be of the Jewish faith.
Or Italian?
And there weren't any Jewish cowboys.
No! No! It wasn't me! I would never do anything like that. It was just one of those immature people who, instead of building themselves up --
Yes, but I didn't do it.
No, but I'm starting to wish I had.
I can't.
No, really, I can't.
Please don't make me do it.
When I fall asleep, Mr. Bergstrom is the last thing I think of, and he's my first thought when I wake up.
No, no. You don't understand. When Mr. Bergstrom smiles, you only see these teeth --
-- but when you really make him laugh, you can see these two teeth. I think they're called the eye teeth.
I don't know if he had orthodontic work or what, but they're absolutely perfect.
No, Mom. This is different. I mean, this man makes you feel like there's nobody better.
Mom, are we gonna talk, or are we gonna talk?
Fine.
Yesterday, he read us "Charlotte's Web", and cried at the end, never trying to hide his tears.
Yes! Yes, Mr. Bergstrom?
No. Homework's not my father's specialty.
Not mine.
Unless the next word was burp, you didn't have to.
Oh, you'll never go broke appealing to the lowest common denominator.
When?
Places where my intelligence will be an asset, not a liability?
I believe everything you say, with your words, your body language and your Semitic good looks.
Mr. Bergstrom!
Wow!
Ewww. Gross.
Oh Lord.
He ruined the one chance I had of getting to know Mr. Bergstrom outside of school.
Oh, Mom, that's wonderful. Can I find out his favorite dish and help you make it!
Can I wear your jewelry?
Can I get my ears pierced?
Can I dye my shoes pink?
Can I paint my nails?
Can we have wine?
Can I have wine?
Does Bart have to be there?
Can we do it this week?
Mr. Bergstrom, we request the pleasure of your company... no... Mr. Bergstrom, if you're not doing anything this Friday... no... Mr. Bergstrom, do you like pork chops... oh no, of course you wouldn't...
