Hey, anybody mind if I serve as bartender? You know, I have a Ph.D in Mixology.
Hey, Homer! Care to try some of my Flanders Planters punch?
Au contraire, Simpson! It has three shots of rum, a jigger of bourbon and just little dab-a-roo of creme de cassis for flavor.
Why, Homer Simpson! Here to give your marriage a little spit shine?
Well...
Sometimes Maude, God bless her, she underlines passages in my Bible because she can't find hers.
Why Homer, you silly goose! The weed whacker's just for the edges! You're gonna be out here all day!
You are a picture and a half! Well -- hee hee! -- if you're finished by tomorrow, come on over and strap on the feed bag. We're gonna fire up old Propane Elaine and put the heat to the meat! Nummy nummy num!
Fee fi fo fum! I smell the potatoes au gratin of Marge Simp-son! Mmmm- mmm!
Heya, Homer!
Okay, thanks for comin'!
Friends, we love you all, but I also have a "sinister" motive for asking you all here -- "sinister" being Latin for "left-handed." But enough joking.
As of Friday, I'm saying toodle-oo to the pharmaceutical game.
No, I kid you not. Here's the noose I had to wear for ten years.
Well sir, like one out of every nine Americans, I'm left-handed. And let me tell you, it ain't all peaches and cream. Your writing gets smeared. Lord help you if you want to drive a standard transmission.
Well sir, I'm opening a one-stop store for Southpaws. Everything from left-handed apple peelers to left-handed zithers. I'm gonna call it the Leftorium.
So Homer, I'm dyin' to know. What do you think of the Leftorium?
Well, I know it's a little risky and it's gonna be a lot of hard work, but gosh darn it, it's gonna be a lot of fun, too.
Oh, no. The Springfield Mall.
You must have something you want to wish for, Homer.
Come on, Homer! I got an ambition to do some wishin'!
No, no, no, don't say. Otherwise it won't come true.
Oh, a little pokey, but things are gonna pick up.
Now, you put that money away. That was an accident.
Absotively posilutely.
N-Not yet. But one of the mall security guards took a good long look at a left-handed ice cream scoop.
Oh, oh, oh, I expect things to start picking up soon. I think word of mouth is startin' to spread.
Oh, right as rain. Or, as we say around here, left as rain.
Uh, okay.
Come on, Homer. Tell him about the store. I'm dyin' out here.
Are you sure you're not interested? Two hundred dollars is only the asking price.
Hey, I'm flexible! You don't have to pay all at once. I'll be here all night if you change your mind.
Oh, yeah. Sure. Thought I'd just get rid of some of the clutter. See anything you like?
Ah, got your eye on the gas grill. She's a butane beaut.
Twenty? Homer, I paid three hundred dollars for this just last year.
Oh, Homer, be reasonable.
All right, Homer.
Twenty dollars.
What?
Homer! Over here!
Well, there's no house to put it in, Homer, not since that nice fellow from the bank, who was only doing his job, came and locked it up.
Oh, oh, no, it's just a little campout tonight, then off to my sister's apartment in Capital City. Hey what do think, kids? The big city!
Say, Todd, I want to talk to your Uncle Homer. You're head of the car till I get back.
Listen to that singing... those poor fools. Homer, I'm ruined.
You know at times like these, I-I used to turn to the Bible and find solace. But even the good book can't help me now.
I sold it to you for seven cents.
You know, ever since that barbecue, nothing's gone right. It's like there's been a-a curse on me.
No it's not.
No! You tried to warn me about gambling my family's future on some pig in a poke... I didn't listen. Homer, you were a true friend.
For two more days. Then it becomes Libertarian Party headquarters. I hope they have better luck than I did.
Oh, Homer, there's no point...
Homer?
Yes, sir!
Homer, affordable tract housing made us neighbors. But you made us friends.
Hey, fellow slave, is that one of those monkey paw dealies that lets you wish for things?
Okely-dokely.
Ohh, would ya look at that?
Well, I guess my first wish is to get rid of those awful aliens.
Hey, Homer! This little thing-a-ma-jig really works great. Now that I've saved the earth, maybe I oughtta spruce up the ol' homestead.
Three dollars and fifty-one... fifty-two... fifty-three cents.
Hey ho Simpson.
Well sir, there are two schools of thought...
Fella came into the store today and asked for change for a dollar. Well sir, I gave him three quarters by mistake. Took me the whole afternoon to track him down.
All right, that's it, young man. No Bible stories for you tonight.
Well, you knew I had a temper when you married me.
Sorry to bother you, Reverend Lovejoy, but I'm kind of in a tizzy. Our son Todd just told us he didn't want to eat his "damn vegetables."
No Reverend, the point is, he said a bad word.
Where in the Bible?
But Reverend...
Is this all he watches?
He's not getting it from his brother, that's for darn sure.
Homer?
I'm afraid I have a bone to pick with you.
No, I-I came to talk to you about your potty-mouth.
Look Homer, all of us pull a few boners now and then... go off half-cocked and make asses of ourselves. So, I don't want to be hard on you... but I just wish you wouldn't curse in front of my boys.
What's wrong with my moustache?
What?
Okay, mister, you've got yourself a deal. I'll shave off the soup strainer, if you give the sailor talk the old heave-ho, okay?
Hey Homer, Ya know, I owe you one, buddy. No sooner had I shaved off the old cookie duster, than a lady cast me in a commercial.
Ah, I tell ya the way these checks keep coming in, it's almost criminal.
... So recycling is our way of giving Mother Earth a great big hug.
Yes?
Ho, ho, that's where you're wrong, friend.
Aren't we in luck? Today's our tithe day and we've got ourselves a transient. Come in my friend. Let us feed and bathe you.
I think it's Mom's turn, son.
Well, if you ever want to spend the night, Maude and I can sleep on card tables.
Well, howdy-do neighbor.
Oh, indeedily-doodily. I've even been in "Streetcar" once before. I played Blanche DuBois! Hmmm huh. Just part of the fun of going to an all-male school.
Hot diggity! How 'bout that, Marge? Li'l ol' Stanley me! "Stella!" "Stella!" Heh heh.
Roger-dodger.
Aww... isn't that cute? And me without a camera.
You're a dame and I'm a fella.
All I want is one embrace.
Here, Marge, let me. Hate to be an armchair Blanche, but I always gave it one of these...
there, there's the ol' face-shredder!
You're a dame and I'm a fella.
All I want is one embrace.
I'm trying... I'm trying...
Aren't you being a little hard on old Homie?
Let's not and say we did.
STELLA! STELLLA! CAN'T YOU HEAR ME YELL-A? / YOU'RE PUTTIN' ME THROUGH HELL-A / STELLA! STELLA!
The door's frozen shut... and it's the only way out!
Neighbor, I heard about your heresy and we've made it our mission to win you back to the flock.
Homer, Christian life isn't all praying and sacrifice. Hey, dig this.
I see him, son.
Homer! Homer!
Nooo!
Dear Lord, may your loving hand guide Homer to the mattress square and true.
O-kay.
Heck, you'd have done the same for me.
Help! Help!
Homer, God didn't set your house on fire.
Hi fellow Halloweenies! Did I scaredly-dare ya?
Well, howdy strangers! What can I do ya for?
Why, Sue Dokes, you rascal! I thought you were dead and--
Howdy-do, neighbor! Good pipe weather. Thought I'd fire up the briar.
Okely-dokely-do.
Thank you, Plow King-a-lee-ding.
Ah, Homer, why don't you plow it again?
you'll be hist...
You'll be history!
Buenos dias, neighboritos. The handle's Flanders, but my friends call me Ned.
If you need anything, just give a whistle.
Well, gee, I...
I just this minute bought it at the hardware st...
Sure, you can borrow it for a little while.
We'll take good care of your boy, Simpson. Enjoy the miracle of creation.
So, kids, what do you want to play?
Suppertime, boys.
Oh Bart, you met Grandma Flanders. Hope she didn't scare ya.
Heidy-ho, Simpson. Your son shoved this through our doggie door.
And since we're returning your second born, do you think you could see your way to returning my TV tr...
Homer Simpson! Well, if that don't put the "dink" in co-inky-dink.
I'm having a kidney and a lung removed.
First come, first served! What are you in for?
If I could give you my heart, Homer, I would.
Dear Lord, thank you for Ziggy comics, little baby ducks, and "Sweatin' to the Oldies," Volumes One, Two and Four.
Monorail.
Hey Homie, I can see your doodle!
IF YOU THINK I'M CUDDLY / AND YOU WANT MY COMPANY / COME ON WIFEY LET ME KNOW... UGH, UGH, UGH... OOOH...
My name is Ned.
It's been four thousand days since my last drink. It was my first and last Blackberry schnapps.
Ann Landers is a boring old biddy.
I was more animal than man.
Hi-ho pagans! New Years was three months ago, but here's a present anyhoo!
April Fool's!
Okely, dokely do!
Knock that off, you two. It's time for church!
What?! You give me one good reason.
I wish he were, Rod, I pray for the day, but I'm afraid he's just delirious from fever.
I can't imagine what we could've done to... Oh... oh no!
Uh oh.
Oh...the network slogan is true. Watch Fox and be damned for all eternity.
Now, Marge, don't you worry. We've all had our brushes with the law.
No, Ned Flanders.
I'll never have that problem again.
Well, boys, who'd have thought learning about religion could be fun?
Hey!
You know, Reverend, this really isn't a hymn.
Oh my stars!
Say your prayers, Simpson...
... 'cause the schools can't force you like they should.
Maude, these new finger-razors make hedge trimming as fun as sitting through church.
Hiedilly-hey!
Toodledy-doo!
Isn't that nice?
Uh-oh. Better cancel that dinner party tonight. Thanks for the nose-news, neighbor.
Howdy gents. What can I diddily do you for?
Well, that can be arranged.
Oh, dear Lord!
It's some sort of hideous monster.
Aww, isn't that cute? He's trying to claw my eyes out.
Hidilly ho, Bart!
Well howdilly dodilly-do!
Hello? Hello? Hellodilly-odilly?
Ooh, careful there, Marge! Almost nicked me!
Hey now, Marge. Let's not "should" this fella to death.
Well it's Bart Simpson! C'mon in! You're just in time for "Sponge Bath the Old Folks Day!"
Now, just breathe into him every three seconds. Make sure you form a tight seal around his mouth.
Well sir, just apply a smidgen of peanut butter to an ordinary pine cone and you got yourself a makeshift bird feeder, sir.
Okay, now, everybody take out your Junior Campers pocketknives...
Oop, sorry, Bart, that's a Neddy no-no. You're not allowed to handle a pocketknife 'til you read this booklet on knife safety and pass a test.
Here you go, your rubber training knife. You've attained the rank of Pussy Willow.
Okay, kids, now I'm gonna teach you how to trap wild animals. But this should only be used in a life or death situation.
Howdilly hey, Camper Bart. Ready for today's meeting?
Okilly dokilly. Now, our annual Father-Son Rafting Trip is next weekend.
Oh Warren, I know your Dad is in prison, but don't you fret. A special Celebrity Dad has been arranged for ya.
Sorry, but I'm afraid Ernest Borgnine has already been confirmed.
Okey-dokey, everybody find a partner. Two dads to a raft.
Well, Homer, looks like we're boat buddies, huh? Want me to Zinc your sniffer?
I guess now we know why they call them rapids and not slow-pids, huh?
Now what happened to that gosh darn map I brought?
Whoa, Nelly!
Oh, quick, Homer! Which way do we turn--?
Uh-oh... no time.
Matthew, Mark, Luke-and-John!
Paddle harder, Homer. We gotta fight the current.
Again? Homer, we have to ration the water carefully. It's our only hope.
Wrong, we're saved! Sea gulls always stay near land. They only go out to sea to die.
Here's our chance! Dolphins always help humans lost at sea.
Come back! Come back! Oh, we're done for! We're done for! We're Done-diddily-done for we're done- diddily-doodily done-diddily-doodily done-diddily-doodily done-diddily-doodily...
Thank you, Homer, I dunno what got--
Diddily.
You know, Homer, this cheese doodle is our last morsel of food.
Godspeed, li'l doodle.
That's what you're smelling, Homer! Oh, if it weren't for this blasted fog, we'd be saved!
Homer Simpson! That's a dilly of a pickle. Hey, let's conference you with Marge, huh?
Kids, did anyone pray for giant shoes?
Okilly dokilly.
What do you think, Reverend?
Hidilly ho, neighboreenos.
You folks got robbed too? The burglar took my Shroud of Turin beach towels.
Welcome, neighbors... since the police can't seem to get off their dufferoonies to do something about this burglarino, I think it's time we start our own neighborhood watch... arooni!
Now, who should lead the group?
I don't really have very much experience, but I'll be---
Hidilly ho!
Ned Flanders...
Oh golly, if that doesn't put the shaz in shazam. Oh listen, what's the cash value of those tickets so I can report it on my income tax?
Hidilly ho, neighbor. Wanna go to the game with me? I got two tic...
Well, get out the Crayolas and color me tickled pink! Oh, what's with the lead pipe? Were you gonna give my noggin a floggin'?
What?
Wow, these are amazing seats, huh Homer?
Relax, Homer, I keep tellin' ya, you're my guest.
Heh-heh, yeah.
Hidilly ho, Stanster.
Stan, tell you what -- Homer Simpson here is just about the biggest Atom fan that's ever graced God's green earth. I bet he'd enjoy it, even more than me.
Ooo, I guess it's time for me to duck again.
Heydilly ho, window buddy. Just wonderin' if you'd like to come over and give the new pool table a whirl.
Uh, be careful there, Homer. That is sort of a new table.
Now, boys, Mr. Simpson is the guest. He gets to decide what to watch.
Sure didilly do. Over two hundred and thirty channels locked out.
Wait a second. You're the man at the hospital who reads to sick children.
...Bless the grocer for this wonderful meat, the middlemen who jacked up the price, and let's not forget the humane but determined boys over at the slaughter house.
Homer, I-I'd love to chitty-chat, but tonight's the night I do my charity work.
Oh... well... that sounds super duper.
Homer, maybe you'd have had more fun at Moe's tonight.
Sometimes to keep from hurting someone's feelings, we have to say things that aren't exactly...
How are my boys doin', Homer?
Eh, well sir. My entire family is very touched and--
We're headin' back. Todd's got Zesty Italian in his eye.
Oh, I don't know...
Oh Lord, please give me the strength to endure Homer Simpson's friendship.
There's Homer. There's Homer too. That's also Homer. That's Homer.
I -- I think I hate Homer Simpson.
Oh! Almost. Boy that was close.
Ah, uh, Homer, we're gonna visit the boys' grandmother. Family only. You know?
No, I-I mean just the Flanders family.
We're not going anywhere.
I can't, it's a Geo!
We did it, we got rid of...
I told you, officer. I'm not "hepped up" on "goof balls."
I can't do it, Maude. I can't face their accusing eyes.
I think we should leave.
Stop it! Breathe through your damn mouth!
Oh can't you see this man isn't a hero! He's annoying. He's very, very annoying!
Thank you. Thank you so much, Homer. You really are a you're a true friend.
Just try and stop me.
Hi-diddly ho, neighbor.
Okilly-dokilly.
It's the Four Elephants of the Apocalypse!
Well, gettin' closer.
Well, tippity-top o' the a.m. to every-good-body here! As chairman of the PTA, I Am dee-diddily-lighted to take over, and I think I can put the "pal" back in principal.
Now I know everybody's eager to get back to class --
But I thought it might break the ice if we had a little Q and A.
Yeah, you.
Well, let me just say I want to put the "stew" back in students.
Bart, I've barely been here a good solid week, and you've been sent to my office eleven times. And now that I have peanut butter cups, you seem to be gettin' in trouble every hour.
Anyhoo, Bart, you're gonna have to be punished. This isn't just some sort of club house.
Oh, sorry, were you drinking Slice or Yoo-Hoo?
Well, I may go a little bit easy on the old hickory dickory stick, but that's, that's because my dad was so hard on me when I was a boy.
Woopsy-doodle.
Well, cockily-Doodily-Doo, little buddies. Let's thank the Lord for another beautiful school day.
Well, I really enjoyed my time here, Superintendent. May the Lord bless and keep you.
Okily-dokily.
We might as well make it official.
Well, Homer, what a pleasant...
But you rang my...
Hey, Homer, what's the big brouhaha? Ha.
Ohmygod! What have I done? I've killed her!
I wish there was some other explanation for this. But there isn't. I'm a murderer! I'm a murderer!
I'm a murdiddly-erdiler.
Mommy had to go away. She's with God, now.
Soon enough.
MARY HAD A LITTLE LAMB / LITTLE LAMB / LITTLE LAMB...
It's time to put you away.
Put you away for good.
What the gumdrops is going on, here?
Murdered?
All right. It's true. I am a murderer. I over-watered Maude's favorite ficus plant, I panicked, and then I buried the remains. I was hoping to replace it before you got home.
Huh? Well, now that I can't explain.
Hey, why that sounds like Gabriel's trumpet. You know what that means, kids?
Hidilly ho, slave-a-reenos.
Oh, I see by the big board we've got a Negative Nellie in Sector Two. I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask the whole family to kinda freeze and prepare for re-Neducation.
Okay, everybody. Let's see some big smiles.
Just relax, let the hooks do their work.
Now, in case all that smilin' didn't cheer ya up, there's one thing that never fails. A nice glass of warm milk, a little nap, and a total frontal lobotomy.
You just be ready with that garbage bag.
Hi-de-ho-e-roonie, neighbor. What can I do you for?
I kinda figured this might happen, so I built the shelter big enough for both our families.
Well, Howdilly doodilly neighbors. Shouldn't you be in your sheltereenees by now?
Well sorry, the shelter's kinda full.
Wait!
I may regret this when our air runs out and we can't whistle or stay alive, but oh, what the hey...
Well sir, sounds fair. Toodle-oo, everybody. I'll, I'll scream when the comet gets here.
No, sweetheart, you stay here because--
I might go mad with fear out there, so Todd, I want you to shoot Daddy if he tries to get back in.
Okay.
QUE SERA, SERA / WHATEVER WILL BE, WILL BE / THE FUTURE'S NOT OURS TO SEE...
QUE SERA, SERA / WHATEVER WILL BE, WILL BE...
WHEN I WAS JUST A LITTLE GIRL / I ASKED MY MOTHER WHAT WILL I BE / WILL I BE PRETTY, WILL I BE RICH? / HERE'S WHAT SHE SAID TO ME...
Whatcha diddily doin', neighbor?
Is that so? Well gee... maybe the old FlandersMobile could use a...
Lucky I always keep a Bible close to my heart.
Lucky I was wearing an extra large piece of the True Cross today. I think I'll go inside.
Now, Maude, in our movie, you lay baby Moses in the basket, then put it among the reeds. Okay? Lights, camera, act - diddily-doddily-doodilly- Action Jackson!
Flanders to God, Flanders to God! Get off your cloud and save my Todd.
Thanks, God.
'Zounds, I did thee mightily smite-ly.
"'Zounds" is a renaissance English word, short for "God's Wounds." But uh, "smite-ly," that's pure Flanders!
Oh, we sure could use a pooch to guard the flock at the Flanderosa.
All right, I'd like to call this meeting of the PTA to or-diddly-order and let's see if we can't put an end to this strike fuss, huh? Mrs. Krabappel, why don't you begin?
Well, I guess this is a case where we'll have to agree to disagree.
Oh, this is a dilly of a pickle.
No, no. The PTA has not disbanded.
We do have an emergency plan in case of a prolonged strike right here.
Let's see. "Replace teachers with super-intelligent cyborgs. Or, if cyborgs aren't invented yet, use people from the neighborhood."
Bringing in the sheaves, bringing in... Oh my Lord!! Something horrible has happened!
Oh.
Yeah.
That's a good one.
Well, I guess I am putting up the Halloweenie decorations a little early. Criticism accepted.
Okay, okay folks, look. I called the Police Captain in Shelbyville. He says he hasn't seen our kids, but if they show up in the morgue he's gonna fax us.
Well, okay, but, you know, just go a little bit easy on the...
Well, a friendly Springfield hello there, neighbors. I, you know, we think some kids of ours may be missing in your town.
It won't start! Something's draining the battery?!
Yes. Eat all of our shirts.
Dear Lord. That's the loudest profanity I've ever heard.
Uh, I'd like to hear from Sideshow Mel.
Heydilly-ho! Welcome to your new home, neglect-areenos!
Mmm-hmm. All we want to do is give you kids a good home until they get their act together.
Hey, kids! Nachos, Flanders-style! That's cucumbers with cottage cheese.
Oh, Bart. I know you're still getting adjusted here. Tell you what. We'll do whatever you want to do.
Well, I guess a little television won't hurt. I used to let the boys watch "My Three Sons," but it got 'em all worked up before bedtime.
Uh, er, that's just raspberry jam.
No, son. No sirree, Bob.
Peek-a-boo! I see you!
Peek-a-boo! I see you!
C'mon, you Gloomy Gusses. Who's up for a big bowl of non-fat ice milk?
Nighty night, my sweet li'l foundling-a-dings.
WELL, I DON'T KNOW IF THE ALLEGATIONS ARE TRUE / BUT YOU GOT US, AND BABY, WE GOT YOU.
BABE. WE GOT YOU, BABE.
Well, children, it's Saturday night, so what say we let our hair down and play Bombardment...
...of Bible questions.
Which version shall it be?
Vulgate it is.
Okay. For one gold star: What Persian king exempted the Levites from taxation?
Righty-o!
Well...
No, Son, we've got to let Bart and Lisa get one. C'mon, this one's easy.
Well, guess! Book of Revelations... Fire-breathing lion's head... tail made out of snakes... Who else is it gonna be?!
Jes... ? Jes... ? Don't you kids know anything? The serpent of Rehaboam? The well of Zohassadar? The bridal feast of Beth Chadruharazzeb?
No, that ain't gonna do it.
Jeepers H. Crackers! I'd better call the Reverend!
Reverend... Emergency... I... You... Simpson kids... Eedily... Baptism... Oodily... Doodily-doodily...
Looks like I'm gonna have to baptize you myself.
Until this, I never thought Homer and Marge were bad parents. But now I know you kids need a less hellbound family.
Today we write a new page in the Flanders family bible.
Who wants to be the first to enter God's good graces?
Do you reject Satan, and all his empty promises?
Wait, Homer. What did you just say?
Oh, fair enough.
Rod, you order anything you want for your big ten-oh.
Well, I expect that type of language at Denny's, but not here.
Oh, gosh, Homer, this is strictly a Flanders affair. I've got family here from around the globe! Here's José Flanders...
And this is Lord Thistlewick Flanders...
Can I come?
Congratulations, Homer. Your Q is a huge success. A toast to the host who can boast the most roast.
Help me! Help me, Lord!
Well, as the tree said to the lumberjack -- I'm stumped.
No.
Yeah. A crazy guy shot a bunch of people and the subway ran over my hat.
You have our deepest condol-diddly-olences. I'm sorry. I'm just nervous, I didn't mean any disrespect.
You know...
Homer's passing...away.
Into death.
Oh, Marge. Of course Homer's alive. He's alive in all our hearts.
It's me... Ned.
So if you're looking for a half bag of charcoal briquettes, or an artificial Christmas tree -- trunk only, c'mon over to the Hibbert table. Pronto.
Well sir, looks like we got some nice items here at Table Glick. Like this...
What the heckaroonie is this, Mrs. Glick?
Uh-huh. Well, I... uh, I guess you could put a lot of nice things in there--
Well, looks like somebody sold something today.
Now, folks, nothin' spells fun like rhinestones on a dungaree jacket!
Well, sir, I'm welcoming the Bushes on behalf of the Neighborhood Association.
Howdily-Doodily there, President Bush--or should I say President Neighbor! I'm Ned Flanders, and this is Maude, Rod and Todd.
Tip-top-notch!
Thankily-dankily! Greatalicious!
Now, Todd, don't scare the president.
Who? Maude and me?
Thankily-dank, Mayor, I shan't disappoint. Har ye, har ye! I declare myself pickled tink about Springfield's Bicen-ciddily-ti-ten-toodily-rin-tin-tennial Day!
Aw, they're just family heirlooms. That shouldn't stand in the way of Homer takin' my job and--
Well, hey, it's Homer! Good to see ya, neighb--
Howdy, Reverend Lovejoy. Nice to see you there ... on my lawn... with your dog.
Better get the ol' snow shovel back from Homer, huh?
Marge Simpson -- still making juice the old-fashioned way?
Why don't you freeze it with an ice cube and hit it with a hammer? Works for me when I get bubbly-gum in the ol' push-broom.
Hmm. I seem to have mashed more hair into it. Oh well.
Well, howdilly-doodily, stranger! Couldn't help but notice you stealing my boat.
You ever operated a power boat?
Know anything about water safety?
What do you need it for?
Ooh, sounds spine-tingly-dingling. Just promise you'll have a good time.
Maude? Boys? Come on up! We're gonna have a little camp-out in the dinghy.
Open the door, Maude! I don't have time for the secret knock!
Well, now realistically, Homer, I've lived here some 30-odd years. This is the first and only bear I've ever seen.
Homer, I'm in a rhubarb of a pickle of a jam here. I was all set to go off on vacation, when I get called up for jury duty. Oh, it's a corker of a case -- seems a man drove up onto a traffic island and hit a decorative rowboat full of geraniums.
Well, if it'll seal the deal, I'll take a look at your septic tank. See if I can get her hummin' again.
Hello, "Mr. Brown Ground", whatcha got for me?
Uh... Homer... Ah, about those things you borrowed from me over the years -- you know -- the TV trays, the power sander, that downstairs bathtub... you going to be needing those things in Cypress Creek?
Oh... uh...
Okily dokily.
'Bye-diddly-i.
Well, if God didn't make little green apples -- it's Homer Simpson! How long have you been here?
Oh, suckin' down the cider, eh? Hey, word to the wise... season pass!
Pays for itself after the 16th visit. You know, most people don't know the difference between apple cider and apple juice. But I do. Now here's a little trick to help you remember...
If it's clear and yellow, you've got juice there, fellow! If it's tangy and brown, you're in Cider Town! Now there's two exceptions, and it gets kinda tricky here...
...Adirondack cider can be yellow if they're using late-season apples. And, of course, in Canada the whole thing's flip-flopped...
Oh, my. I better get you some cider.
Homer, I'm as permissive as the next parent. I mean, just yesterday, I let Todd buy some Red Hots with a cartoon devil on the box. But you can't possibly think it's appropriate for your ten-year-old son to work in a burlesque house!
Uh, it's an angry mob, ma'am. Could you step outside for a twinkle while we knock down your house?
That's dignity, all right.
Well, I'm convinced. The house stays!
Well, we all changed our minds.
I'm sorry, it really was one of those spur-of-the-moment-type things.
Y'know, I like his films, except for that nervous fella who's always in 'em.
Oo, that's a noodle scratcher.
Oh, righty-o! It's good for keeping down the urges.
Howdilly-doodilly.
Ach! It was that darn recording again!
Howdilly-dood...
Dang!
But it could be my mother! Howdi...
Shoot!
Howdilly-doodily...
Well, need some help there? You know, maybe you folks should come over and hunker in our bunker.
Oh, it'll be fun. We're gonna go through our old cancelled checks and receipts and give ourselves an audit. Make sure we don't owe anything extra.
No, sirree, we'd be happy as hens to ha--
Okilly-dokilly. Oo, I better go take down the manger scene. If baby Jesus got loose, he could really do some damage.
It's all gone. Everything... gone-diddily-on.
Maude? Rod? Todd?
Well, sir, everyone's alive. Guess that's something to be thankful for.
Y'know, it's kinda funny. The only thing that survived the storm were the family tombstones. They're all we have left.
Lookin' good, Rod. Lookin' good.
Reverend Lovejoy, with all that's happened to us today -- Uh, I... I kinda feel like Job.
But Reverend, I need to know. Is God punishing me?
Even in my darkest hour, I can turn to the Good Book for...
Son of a gun-diddily-un! Those gilded edges smart!
Uh-huh. Floor feels a little gritty here.
Why me, Lord? Where have I gone wrong? I've always been nice to people. I don't drink or dance or swear. I've even kept kosher, just to be on the safe side. I've done everything the Bible says, even the stuff that contradicts the other stuff. What more could I do? I... I feel like I'm coming apart here. I want to yell out, but I... I... I just can't dang-diddily-do-dang-do-don-diddily-darn-do it. I... I...I...
Aw, what happened now? Did the rubble burn down?
It's a miracle!
It's wonderful. I... I... I don't know how I can possibly repay you, but if any of you ever need a favor, just look for the happiest man in Springfield.
Uh-huh. Ooh, looks like a loose nail.
Was that... uh, was that toilet always next to the refrigerator?
Oh, something is definitely wrong with this hallway!
Well, I've seen about enough.
Oh, now, calm down Neddilly-diddily-diddily-diddily-diddily... They did their best... Shoddily-iddily-iddily-diddily... Gotta be nice... hostility-ilitity-bility-dility -- Aw, hell, diddly-ding-dong-crap! Can't you morons do anything right?!!
Well, my family and I can't live in good intentions, Marge! Oh, your family is out of control, but we can't blame you, because you have goooood intentions.
Oh, okay "Dude." I wouldn't want you to have a cow, "Man." Here's a catch-phrase you better learn for your adult years: "Hey, buddy, got a quarter?"
Do I hear the sound of butting in? It's gotta be little Lisa Simpson -- Springfield's answer to a question no one asked!
What do we have here? The long, flabby arm of the law. The last case you got to the bottom of was a case of Mallomars.
Oh yeah, the clown. The only one of you buffoons who doesn't make me laugh. And as for you -- I don't know you, but I'm sure you're a jerk.
You ugly, hate-filled man.
Homer, you are the worst human being I have ever met.
I attacked all my friends and neighbors just for trying to help me. I'd like to commit myself.
Ooh, kicking and screaming, please.
Noooooooooooo!
Uh, actually, I'm a little chilly. Could I have another straitjacket?
Thank you. Doctor Foster?
Oh, sure. I was a good little boy.
I can't believe I was such a terror.
Well, I'll be darn-diddly-arned.
It sure did-diddly-id.
Well, howdy, Homer!
Ooh, thanks for dropping by!
Oh, well, I'll just have to try harder! Oops, thanks for dropping by.
Ho ho ho. Very funny, wise guy.
Hi, neighbor!
Oh, now, why would I be afraid of that?
Well, maybe a few of them do. Back East.
Mmm, mmm. 'Sure are fun to scratch. Mmm. Satisfying.
Oh, they hum like angels. You're never lonely if you've got a fluorescent light.
No, that's not true. I... I... I don't like the service at the post office. Y'know, it's all rush, rush, get you in, get you out. Then, they've got those machines in the lobby. They're even faster. No help there. You might even say I hate the post office. That, and my parents. Lousy beatniks! Hey, that felt good!
Thanks, everyone. I'm all better now. No more storing up the anger 'til I explode. If any of you does something I don't like, you are gonna hear about it!
And if you really tick me off, I'm gonna run you down with my car!
Um-hm.
Oh, I admit it! It's only two-alarm -- two-and-a-half tops! I just wanted to be a big man in front of the kids.
We'll see, son. We'll see.
Sure, buddy, I'd be happy to...
...help out. What can I do-diddily-do...diddily-doodily-diddily-hoobily-hobbily-hibbily-gooble-gobble-gooble-gooble-gabba-gabba-hey?
Uh, were you on my roof last night, stealing my weathervane?
Hi-dilly-ho Shary Bobbins!
THEY'RE NOT PERFECT, BUT THE LORD SAYS LOVE THY NEIGHBOR --
OKELY-DOKELY-DO.
Homer, I can honestly say that was the best episode of Impy and Chimpy I've ever seen.
Homer, I've got a fozzie of a bear of a problem. Y'know, Maude and her mother were visiting Tyre and Sidon, the twin cities of the Holy Land. They must've kneeled in the wrong place and prayed to the wrong God, because, well, they're being held prisoner by militants of some sort.
Well, any hoodily-doodle, the embassy says it's just a routine hostage-taking -- but I have to drive to Capital City, fill out some forms to get 'em out. Could you possibly watch the kids tonight?
Well, I don't know, Lisa. You're awfully young, and the boys can be a handful. Todd's been pinching everyone lately.
Well, what do you say, Homer? Can Lisa babysit for my kids?
Oh, imagine that -- sleeping quietly after a bug attack! Oh, and Todd's as dry as a bone! Lisa, you're a wonder! I'm going to recommend you to everybody!
Lisa, Ned Flanders. You available tonight?
You did? Just a minute. What time can you come over?
Well, if you're talking about root beer, I plead guilt-didilly-ilty as char-dardilly-arged.
I'm meek... but I could probably stand to be meeker.
...Well, I... I think I may be coveting my own wife...
I think I swallowed a toothpick.
Uh, I'm in some hot soup here, Marge. Uh, some teenagers are hanging out in front of the store. I... I think they could start slacking at any moment.
Yeah, well, if you're sure that'll help...
Uh, excuse me, fellas... I... I couldn't help thinking it might be nice if you could uh, vamoose, you know. If possible.
Uh, Marge, I... I appreciate your advice, but, uh, things have gotten... Well, they... they're a lot worse.
I know, but... they're on their mini-bikes and all...
Yeah, it's Ned Flanders. The teens have been chasing me all night. They finally stopped to gas up their scooters.
Oh, I can't see the name of the station... but the gas costs one forty-nine and eight tenths.
Oh, they're leaving! The ordeal is over!
Help! What do I do?!
Tell Maude I want a fancy funeral. Big coffin. Lotsa jewels.
Oh, oh, thank the Lord! He's truly watching over--
You saved me, Reverend. You really went above and beyond. Thank you!
Amen.
Uh... Homer?
Well, sir, I hate to be a Suspicious Aloysius on you, but did you steal my air conditioner?
Now, now, there's plenty of exits for everyone.
Ex... ex... excuse me, sir? I think you've got my TV. Sir?
Ho-ho-ho, you betcha. Team sports'll keep you away from temptations like rock music and girls.
Little higher, Wendell... A lot higher, Martin... Ah, Ralph, that's a basketball.
Oof! Okay, Nelson's our quarterback.
Ralph, you'll be on special teams.
And, uh, Bart, you'll be a tackle.
Well, that's super-duper, Lisa! In fact, we already have four girls on the team.
Uh-huh, but we'd love to have you on board.
Well, actually, Lisa, these balls are synthetic.
Who are we?
Who are we going to beat?
All right, Wildcats! Are you ready to give 110 per cent, take it one game at a time, and go the whole nine yards?
Okilly-dokilly, let's put on our game faces.
Yeah. Thanks for the tip, Homer...
What?
What?! What is it?!
They're just words, Neddie. Words can't hurt ya.
Ow! That's it!
Do you have a problem with the way I'm coaching?
Uh-huh. Half a brain, huh? Well, you know what? It sounds like you just volunteered!
Good luck, Homer. No hard feelin's.
You mean like... an angel?!!
Oh-ho, I gotta say, Lisa, it sounds like you're strainin' to do some explainin'.
Oh, we can work this out, friends. In the spirit of sharing, what say we simply place the sacred bones in--
Hey-hey there, Marge. Just brought the kids over to share a prayer with the blessed angel, if it's okay with you.
Thanks anyway, Homer.
I'll take four!
Science is like a blabbermouth who ruins a movie by telling you how it ends. Well, I say there are some things we don't want to know! Important things!
We've come for the angel, Homer. It's not safe with the unbeliever.
Reverend, I've got to admit, this doomsday warning has me just a smidge twitterpated.
Well, shall we sing a hymn? Uh, "Nearer My God to Thee", maybe? Or, or, or "Amazing Grace"?
Well, nothing's perfect, I sure hate to make you come out here and not buy a house.
I guess it is sorta cute...
Hm. Wh-when you put it that way, it does seem a bit small.
Oooo, that's a dilly. How 'bout it, Marge?
Oh, my-diddily-i. Will you look at this place! And the price has been slashed repeatedly!
Well, I'm just gonna spill my guts: I love it to death! I'm gonna give you a deposit this minute.
Unless you can give me a reason not to?
Well, Marge?
That's good enough for me.
Purple drapes! All my life I've wanted purple drapes!
Well, neighborinos, I guess this is goodbye... I better make this quick or I'm gonna start blubbering like a baby.
Uh, now that you mention it, we could use...
Oh, you're sweet to offer, but, uh, we're all just so tired, we just want to get to our new house and rest in peace.
So long, Simpsons!
Oh, hi, Marge. Heh-heh. Guess we gave you quite a start. We were painting Todd's room red -- pretty messy work -- and then we came out here to take a break. Must've dozed off.
This is the murder house?!
Ahh, of course! This must be where he dropped the dagger. And this is the butler's pantry where Mrs. Astor concealed herself. And right here's where they found the torso heap! In front of our very own fireplace!
We appreciate the offer, Marge, but I think we're going to be very happy here.
Uh, Marge? Still got that deposit check?
Hey, heard some no-goodnik stole your tree. Well we got a 30 footer, so you can have the top of ours.
There goes Christmas dinner.
Oh-ho-ho. No problem, Marge. Oh.
I don't think that's gonna do it.
Looks like slim pickin's today, Reverend.
Hey, I made some Rice Krispy squares for our hungry deprogramerinos!
Well, this is my rumpus room.
Oh ho, I'm afraid I played a dirty part in this little charade.
Uh, maybe we should take a little break-a-rooney, huh? Anyone like a draft beer?
You know, I pride myself on being a good host, so I'm obliged to offer you a beer. But I'm so darn mad it's gonna be mostly head.
Uh, is that your collar, Reverend?
Oops! That's for me. Flancrest Enterprises is my home business.
No-ho-ho, it's true! Maude and I sell religious hook rugs over the Internet.
Yes indeedy. Makin' some good scratch, too.
Yep.
It says "Show me your tie." It's cute. C'mon, let's go.
Whoa! January first! Better get goin' on those taxes, Neddy!
Hmmm. Let's see, cash-register ink. Well, sir, that's a business expense, isn't it? Mmm... But then I do enjoy the smell of the stuff -- better not risk it.
Ohhh, why, everything! Policemen, trees, sunshine. And let's not forget the folks who just don't feel like workin', God bless 'em.
8:45?! Here I am yappin' away like it's 8:35. Don't forget the mints.
Get your taxes out of the way?
Easy, Ned, don't breathe in.
Oooooh!
Uh, listen Homer, ah, hate to be a fussy Freddy and all, but Maude's folks are here and, ah, they're a tad touchy about odors...
Rod, get off of there!
WHO CAN?
Dear Lord, please take Mr. Bunny up to heaven.
Heh. Sports on a Sunday? Hm. I'd better check with Reverend--
Now, the secret to the windmill hole is to--
Bingo.
Hmm. That's odd. It didn't come out the rear end.
Oh, now Roddy, it's just a stuck ball. I'll get it.
Hm, maybe there is something in there.
Well, something's in there all right.
It was people. People soiled our green!
Hey, here come the Simpsons. N-Now be careful, Homer. There's a fella in the sand right in front of ya...
Homer, is that my muffler?
Thanks for the tip, Homer.
Dear Lord, please make tonight's production better than "Othello" with Peter Marshall.
Howdy, Homer.
Well, that's not quite true--
Well, I did, but--
Well, yes.
I suppose, if you must know... I'm... well, I'm... I'm sixty.
L-Listen, folks, there's no magic formula. I just follow the three C's: clean living, chewing thoroughly, and a daily dose of Vitamin Church.
And, of course, I resist all the major urges.
No, no, and double-no! I haven't done any of those things, folks. You name it, I haven't done it!
Oh, can you believe it? It almost seemed like those folks were, were, were making fun of old steady Neddy.
Mmm-hmm. And some people steer clear of that whole hornet's nest. I'll stick with just plain white bread, thank you very much. Maybe with a--
Gosh darn it! Am I that pre-diddley-dictable? I've wasted my whole dang diddley life.
Look at that! Everyone's living it up except Ned.
In the bathroom. Not trimmin' my mustache. Whaddaya think? Do I remind you of troubled troubadour David Crosby?
Would a silly billy sit like this?
Never a dull moment, huh, Homer?
Here, this may sound just a teensy bit insane in the ol' membrane, Homer. But I, I was wondering if you could show me how to have some fun.
Yeah, I, I guess I do.
How 'bout it, Homer? Will you teach me the secret of your intoxicating lust for life?
Stop that! Will you help me or not?
So what about all this meat?
Seems fair.
Of course I... Oh, my stars! I can't do that.
All right.
So, what happens next?
Okay, Homer. I'm ready to learn. What's the first lesson? Just give me the topic sentence.
Homer, they blew that up yesterday.
Ooh, it's goin' on eight-thirty. I'd better call Maude and tell her where I am.
Thanks, buddy.
Oh, gee, Homer, this all looks so garish.
Oh, the lights, the noise, the letter X -- i-it's all designed to inflame the senses. I'm overstimulated! I gotta get out of this town!
No, I got it.
If he's not careful, his scooter could roll right down that ramp.
Oh, when I wanna laugh, I'll take Bob Saget, thank you very much.
No, Homer, no! I wanna do something exciting, but I can't just go from zero to thirty like that! I-I could be killed.
God Homer, watching you risk your life turned my beat box all the way up to .. Rumba! Yea, I was praying you'd be safe but to be honest, part of me wanted to see ya get splattered.
Aw, leave me out of this, Homer. Games of chance are strictly forbidden by Deuteronomy seven--
Oh, I got a bunch, Homer, but I just don't feel right ab... Oh, Lord, what should I do?
J-- What?
Oh, righty-o. One betting disk please.
How do you do it, Homer? How do you silence that little voice that says, "Think"?
Oh no. I-I mean common sense.
You threw it out the...
I'll have a Shirley... no, a virgin... no, make it a children's... Oh, what the heck, you only live once. Give me a...
White wine spritzer!
Oh my goodness, Homer. Wake up!
Look at this place! We must have really painted the town last night. I have a pounding headache, my mouth tastes like vomit, and I don't remember a thing!
Oh, I did it! I conquered my fears and I made up for a lot of lost livin'. And I owe it all to the Homer Simpson program.
Here comes that vomit again.
Mm-hm, I'm workin' on that.
I okeley dokely shmokely do!
Homer! The bad news, ladies, is we already have wives.
Ginger's my wife.
Homer, why don't we go make the girls some custom omelettes?
What are we gonna do, Homer? My kids are gonna be traumatized! And then there's Maude. And then there's Maude!
Well, do something! This is all your fault. You and your stupid program.
How are we going to get outta this mess in an honorable and decent--
Ooh, nuts.
Oh no!
Drederick Tatum!
For the last time, no!
Will you shut up?
What's the occasion?
Homer!
Uh, do I have to be gang-probed?
What did the aliens look like?
I don't want to be a Panicky Pete, but it's Sunday and I haven't been to church yet.
Well, not, not my cup of...
I can't believe it. We're actually in the winning locker room!
I suppose I do take Maude for granted.
Aw, gee, the man's just trying to show his wife he cares for her. How can we sabotage his labor of love?
You know, with all the energy we're puttin' into this sabotage thing, we coulda written sonnets for our wives, or learned to tango, or lovingly restored one of those antique...
Whew, well, at least I got a hunk of Moe's hair.
Leapin' Lazarus! Is this what passes for eternal rest these days? Rod, go get Daddy his buryin' shovel.
Not so deep the Lord can't find him... and judge him.
Excuse me, Reverend? It's, ah, hard to hear you with those fans goin'.
Hi-diddly-ho, paradise dwellers!
Oh Adam, you're too kind.
Oh-ho-ho-ho, please. You're gonna give me a swelled head. I just stopped by to see if you needed anything.
You got it, Eve.
There you go.
Well, I'd better skedaddle. Oh, there's one more weensy little thing -- you see that tree over there?
I hate to be a bossy Betty, but I have to forbid you to eat its fruit.
What the dickens?!
Eve, did you taste of the forbidden fruit?
Doggone it, Eve, I think you'd better hightail it outta this Garden!
You heard me.
Vamoose!
So! This is how you repay me, Adam!
And after I created my fingers to the bone for you I... My unicorn! Oh, what have they done to you, Gary?
Oh, shut up. You are so banished.
Homer!
I said Homer!
God... bless him!
What the flood?!
Maude, it's a miracle! The Lord has drowned the wicked and spared the righteous!
Looks like Heaven's easier to get into than Arizona State.
Well, hi-diddly...
Well, this goes right into the old poor box.
Everything but the opinion page! I don't need to be told what to think... by anyone living!
Evening, neighbor. Low on funds again?
Now, Homer, we can't have you burglarizing us every time you've got a bill to pay.
Oh, we're not as well-off as you think. We give to eight different churches, just to hedge our bets. And the Leftorium's business has gone way downhill since Leftopolis moved in next door.
Oh-ho-ho, we picked those up cheap. They were evidence in a murder trial!
We got that tip at the Chuck Garabedian Mega-Savings Seminar.
He taught us how to live a Burt Reynolds lifestyle on a Mac Davis income. We've already got tickets for his next seminar.
I think you'll find living thrifty a lot more satisfying than stealing.
I think I'm gonna be sick.
Dang! I should've brought the camera.
Ho-ho! What a great pot party.
Now for a regular cigarette, to make the night complete. Oh! Man, that's good.
Ho-ho-ho! Why bother, baby? One smoke detector's enough for Mad Dog. Now let's hit the sack.
Check it out! Mad Dog's on fire!
Ha! Ha! Ha! That's for Clydes, baby. A little fire can't hurt you.
Sorry to break character, but these stunt pants are getting pretty toasty!
It's not working! It just spreads the flame!
Phew.
Looks like it. Run get Daddy's exorcism tongs.
"Discotheques," "Frat Houses," "Malibu." Nothing about satellite fires!
Hear that, Maude? Homer's a critic.
Ooh, that looks scrum-diddly-doodly-duddly --
A rude Frenchman? Well, I never!
You can't kill the undead, silly.
Oh, I wish. You see, that night when you hit me with your car...
I'm making record time on this fog walk!
Ooo, better pick up the pace.
Yeah...
I resisted these for thirty-five years! Why did I wear them today?
Oooh, yes indeedy, Homer. Looks like they're settling in for a long stay.
We-ell, morning, Apu. How are the little blessings?
They can be a handful... of joy.
... They'll fill your lives with...
... can't put a price on a miracle...
Hey, Homer! Can I join?
Well, if I were a member, we could use my rumpus room as our lair.
My rumpus room with the new bumper pool table.
I move we reconsider our club name. Make it something a little less blasphemous. After all we don't want to go to Hell.
N-No... you see...
The Chri... I-I-I don't think you understand my objection...
I've got a motorhome I never use. Maybe we should raffle it off.
Well I... Okay.
That shy little imp?
Hi-didly-ho, Schuss in Boots.
Well, it allows for maximum mobility.
Feels like I'm wearing nothin' at all!
Feels like I'm wearin' nothin' at all. Nothin' at all, nothin' at all...
Hi-didly-ho, I...
Maude, come quick! The Simpsons are covered with cooties!
You saw "Ben-Hur" without me?
Well, that's no...
Oh, those poor souls. What's the Christian thing to do?
Uh, listen, Homer, we'd love to help you, but we're not really set up for lepers.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm just thinking we could send you to a better place... you know, a place where they can really take care of you.
Ooh, that smarts. Boys, get the alcohol-free alcohol.
Mm-hm. That's the one! They've got a top-notch leper colony there, so we shipped 'em right off. Ooh, cost us a bundle, too. I guess we'll have an "Imagination Christmas" this year.
Ah, ha, excuse me, neighbor...
Ah, yeah, I, I couldn't help but notice you, you picked pretty much all of my flowers.
Oh-ho, true enough. But, uh, did you have to salt the earth so nothing would ever grow again?
Yes, son.
Hey, need any help, Homer?
Hi-diddly-ho, pedal-to-the-metal-o-philes!
Well, I don't care for the speed, but I can't get enough of that safety gear. Helmets, roll-bars, caution flags...
Abso-not-ly, hot Roddy. We're up here, out of range of the crashes and the drivers' cussing.
No foot-longs!
Maude?
Oh, thank you, Apu.
Oh, wasn't she? Thank you, Moe. I appreciate that.
What are you saying?
You monster!
That's nice of you Homer, but I think I'll just go to bed.
Homer, this really isn't necessary...
Hey, that's my sprinkler.
I just bought that...
Aw, Homer. You don't have to...
No, Homer! I just need to talk.
I just keep replaying the whole thing in my head. I can't believe my last words to Maude were "No foot-longs."
If I'd only been a gentleman and got the hot dogs myself, she'd still be here.
Ah, you're right. I've just got to work through the grief. There's not gonna be an easy answer.
Hmm.
Oh, it's been a hard couple of months, but I feel like I've turned a corner.
Tape?
Is this a dating video?
So that's why you maced me.
Homer!
Ewwww.
Homer, you obviously went to a lot of trouble, but dating? It just feels way too soon.
Well, with triple word score, that's ninety! Ha-ha, I guess my luck is starting to even out.
I'm just a Q without a U.
Homer, I'm having second thoughts. This feels so disloyal to Maude.
You think she would?
Sherlock Holmes is a character.
Okay, here goes nothin'.
Well, I...
Mmm. Dinner was delicious, Edna, but I can't shake the feeling that you're just using me to get Principal Skinner jealous.
Well, Diane, I've sure enjoyed chatting with you about your problems with your mother.
Yeah, well, maybe I'll call you again.
Well, I just can't relate to the women of today, Homer. Ah, it's probably me. I'm about as exciting as a baked potato.
Lord, I never question you... but I've been wondering if your decision to take Maude was, well, wrong... Unless this is part of your divine plan... Could you just give me some kinda sign? Anything? And after all that church chocolate I bought. Which, by the way, was gritty and had that white stuff on it. Well, I've had it.
Eh, you boys can go with the Simpsons. I'm not going to church today.
That's right. And I may not go to church tomorrow.
No, I'm not kidding. I am gonna sit right here and miss church. You just watch.
Sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry...
Electric guitars in church? Oh, my gosh. Some dropouts must have overpowered the Reverend!
Ohhhhh.
I'll be right back, boys. I'm going to go help that lady.
Uh, that was a lovely song. It really got to me.
I-I recently lost my wife.
No, I hear what you're saying. It's always hard to replace someone.
Well, that, that sounds real nice, Rachel, but a... I'm a... I'm not quite...
Maybe we can. My name's Ned Flanders, and I'm here every week. Rain or shine.
Jesus, is that you?
Ah yeah, I never shoulda had that trendy laser surgery. It was great at first, but you know, at the ten-year mark, your eyes fall out.
Oh, hi Bart. How much this time?
Yeah. Just answer me this: Are you holding your mooching sack?
Bart, you're never gonna to grow up if I keep bailing you out.
Oh, all right. But only because you haven't outed Rod and Todd.
Actually, Homer, you and I worship the same God, so...
Well, it was a little insensitive giving me a sex test, seeing that my wife just passed away.
Six months ago. You were at the funeral. You fell into the grave.
I'd see 'em sittin' on that couch all day long... just starin' at that Hollywood hogwash.
Hey, uh, careful, boys. That arch is lookin' a little Romanesque.
Homer, it's Neddy. I baked you a little something to ease the pain.
Did I hear my name? My ears are burnin'.
Ah, you're busy. Catch you later, compu-tater.
"They're Controlling Our Minds With Flu Shots?!" I knew it. Well kids, now aren't you glad we don't believe in inoculations?
Oh, my goodness!
Oh, no! I could never support the black arts.
Yeah, you know... magic, fortune telling, Oriental cooking...
Oh, no, Homer, remember? Maudie got called up to Heaven.
What?
Why, there's my name in gold.
Well, I'll just reimburse you right n-- Wait a minute. This seems an awful lot like that movie, "Paper Moon."
Well, I'm all for rescuing the kids, but I wish you hadn't sawed off my roof.
But it's my car.
Hey, whatever happened to the plow from your old snowplow business?
I never had a snowplow business.
Sure you did -- "Mr. Plow." You're wearin' the jacket right now!
Catchy song, all right. You really wrote it?
We're trapped!
Hm, sounds like a plan.
Homer! Wake up! The car's filling with...
Just like the one that saved Ezekiel!
Now let's go save those kids.
Homer, that's not how it...
We're gonna crash!
No. The church opposes them for some reason.
Mmm-hmm. This one's fine and dandy, Roddy. It's approved by a council of Presbylutheran ministers.
Oooh, found a new short cut?
We'll just see about that-- Uh-oh. Well, maybe he made a mistake-- Nope. It's airtight.
Can't let this little doozy get out.
Jeepers, that's sugary, even for my taste.
I really hate to be a snitch.
Well, in that case... My neighbor Homer released a radioactive ape in my house. It's ah, it's taken over the whole top floor.
Look, if you want me to turn, just point. That w...
Ow! It's one-way!
Ow! Now what was that for?
Ow! Ow!
Hey, you got a tennis court.
Will do.
Son of a diddly!
...and Harry Potter and all his wizard friends went straight to hell for practicing witchcraft.
What the diddly-yo?!
Son of a diddly!
Son of a diddly!
I didn't have a "crush" on her.
No, I'm not!
Thank you, Homer.
It says I have cooties.
Uh, uh, huh, oh, hey, Rachel. W-Well what do you know? We both like plain vanilla with nothing on it.
So, uh, uh, where's your band?
Oh, how horrible!
Well, my wife's passing was rough, but I think I'm finally ready to move on.
I can hear her, Homer.
I'd love to get together, but tomorrow I've got lifeguard duty at the baptismal pool.
My place? What would the neighbors think?
Now wait just a Maude-gone minute, here. I'm through living in the past, and you can see for yourself.
All right, I'll take the couch and you can have my room.
Oh, ah, c-c-could you sleep on my side? I-I'm trying to preserve Maude's indentation.
Ohh, no problem. A little starch will fix her right up.
Cold, huh?
This should keep you toasty.
Mmm... I love chenille, don't you?
Mm. Well, goodnight, Maude. I mean, Maude. I mean, Rachel. I mean, Maude.
No, n-n-no I know this is a-a-a tad unseemly, but if you'd just let me even out the back...
Oh, who am I kidding? I'm not over Maude at all.
I sure appreciate you folks offering to go through Maude's things. If it were up to me, I wouldn't throw anything away.
Yea-- What?
Always do.
Oh my. The room looks so bare.
Yeah, just a little shocked. What's that? Some kinda sorting machine?
Maude's old sketch book. She was quite the little artist, you know.
Here's our house... a rainbow... a white hand shaking a black hand...
Praiseland? Rides, food, a tithing pond.
You're right.
Maude designed a Christian amusement park. Oh, it must have been her final dream.
Ohhh, that's a nice thought, Toddy, but to build an amusement park you need lots of money, and manpower, and turnstiles...
But where do you put something that big?
Well, what the heck. Who's ready to build an amusement park?
Well, it's been closed for so long... and-and I thought I could turn it into a Christian theme park.
Now the thing is, I don't have a lot of money...
But I...
If you could do that, I'd make this place a shining beacon for the Lord.
Oh, bless you, sir.
Ah, Gipetto's workshop will make a great stable for the nativity scene.
Darn teenagers with their beer bottles.
Well, it's been a tad harder than I thought, but I'm not complaining 'cause I work for a sweet, sweet, boss. You're our foreman, Maude.
Oh, I don't mind, but my greenback stack's gettin' kinda slack.
Ohhh, I'm not very good at begging people for stuff.
Well thanks, Homer.
Morning, Kent. Our volunteers have done an amazing job getting the park ready here. We're gonna show Springfield that faith and devotion are the wildest thrill rides of all.
Well, Maude, your dream has finally come true.
You can stop Satan with your faith.
No, no, no, no, no, I think you're beautiful.
Ohh, what can I get you, little Christian? How 'bout a Noah's Ark of Jellies?
Nope, they're all the same. Plain.
How 'bout a Maude mask?
I'm Maude. God is super!
Bye bye.
Ohhh, you want me to stamp your hand so you can get back in?
Whoa! Where's everyone going? What's wrong?
Oh, Maude, I turned your dream of a Christian amusement park into a bemusement park.
It is! It's a bemusement park!
I'm sorry, sweetheart. Oh, please don't look at me like that.
It's almost like she's alive again.
Homer, no! I can't exploit a divine manifestation.
Oh, there's no explaining God's will, Roddy. That's like explaining how an airplane flies.
Leak in the line?
Oh, no! This isn't a devine miracle. Everyone's just gettin' goofy from the gas.
Ah, ah, folks, I've just discovered something about this statue that uh, may disappoint you. You see...
Hello, Gas Company? How poisonous is your gas?... Wow. But-- Eh, but I'm talkin', you know, about outdoors with plenty of ventilation that... How could that be worse?... Okay, permanent brain damage, or just temporary?... I see.
I've gotta close Praiseland down. Someone could get hurt.
Nooo!!!
Hey, your hair's grown back real nice.
How 'bout I explain it to you over a cup of coffee. That is, if you're willing to give me another shot.
I'm sure.
So, how 'bout a movie tomorrow night?
Hey, Homer!
Hey, Homer, I need to ask ya a favor. My baby sitter canceled and I got tickets to a Christian rock concert.
It's gonna be one wholesome evening. So, do you think Marge could take care of rowdy Roddy and Typhoon Todd?
Would you mind watching the kids? I'm kinda in a pickle here.
So, did you boys have a good time?
Well, sir, I never heard a preacher use the "m-f" word so many times. Anyway, thanks again.
Oh, Roddy, he's not runnin' a day care center.
So you are running a day care center?
Well, I sure would. It would give the boys a place to go after school.
Me? Okay.
Yeah, b-but my hands are up.
All right officer.
What the...?!
You're using my table saw to violate a court order?
Gee, I always like to help you, Homer, but I don't want to be an accessory to some sort of shady doin's. And it does raise a whole host of ethical questions, such as...
Wow.
Playing a prankeroo, eh?
Greetings from Nedily Space Center on Cape Flandaveral. We noticed your sky-ro-technics and thought we'd join in. Ooh, looks like a perfect landing!
It's kind of you to offer, Mr. Burns, but buzz around town is that you're, well, evil.
My Satan sense is tingling! Into the root cellar, boys!
Maybe never.
Well, Christmas is coming, huh?
Homer!
Well, Ginger, sure is, uh, um, neat that you managed to hunt me down.
Oh Lord, I know my new wife is a little more... "peppermint" than you're used to. But, uh, I know you'd want me to honor my sacred vows, so I will.
Oh, we've got a real shower upstairs.
Me and the boys made you breakfast in bed. It's the best darn diddly way to start your first Flanders day!
Whoops. Watch the swears, Honey Bear. We don't use the "I" word in this house.
Ooh. Who wants to hold Mommy's hair?
Oh, that's not you talkin'. That's the honey-mustard dressing!
This is going right to the orphanage.
Come on, boys.
Hi-O-diddily-ysseus!
I'll say. I'd really like to go out and get the mail.
Well... I don't have one from you!
Bring it in!
Now, throughout history, when people get wood, they'll think of Trojans.
Heaven and earth... Where were we? Oh, now I'm lost.
Hidilly-hey, Homer!
Homer, i-i-it's me, Ned.
Well, sir, of course He could... but then again... Wow, as melon-scratchers go, that's a honey-doodle.
Well, luckily, I've got a book right here that's jam-packed with answers.
I guess that could be arranged.
...The grace of the Lord Jesus be with God's people. The End.
Well, I know he's wishin' you'd sign his petition...to re-criminalize medicinal marijuana.
Well, okay... I, I guess it would go something like this: All right, Simpson, you're under arrest, see?
Thank you so much.
THE CAMPTOWN LADIES SING THIS SONG...
DOO-DA, DOO-DA...
Hey, hey, now hold on there. The nice people want to hear the real words.
Oh, let's just take it from the top.
THE CAMPTOWN LADIES SING THIS SONG...
DOO-DA, DOO-DA...
That's better.
Oh, those are not the words!
Hey Homer, I've been singing your praises all day. Marge said we could have choir practice in your house tonight.
Here's a preview. GOD SAID TO NOAH / BUILD YOURSELF AN ARK-Y ARK-Y / ANIMALS CAME ON BY ONES AND TWOSIES, TWOSIES / ELEPHANTS AND KANGAROOSIES - ROOSIES...
Well, nice work, Inspector Find-It. Did you catch the thief?
Well, I sure didn't.
Nobody.
Okely-dokely.
I'm with you, Homer.
I don't know, neighboreenos, I'm all for Halloween fun, but a séance sounds a little PG-13.
Well, I do miss the Mrs...
Maude! You still look as pretty as the day I buried you.
Say Homer, I was, uh, I was wondering if I could borrow that chainsaw you, uh, stole from me.
No problem! Discover okay?
Okay, here's my Amex.
Hey, Homer!
Hate to be a needy Neddy, but, uh, could you do me a favor...?
Boy, that's Jim Dandy roof candy! I'd love to come over some time and watch that Church Channel.
Oh, you'd win that bet. Seems like I'm spending all my money on religious pay-per-view. Or as I like to call it, "pray-per-view."
And bless your humble home.
Well, cock-a-diddily-doo! What a Marge-alicious way to start my Flander-rific day.
Well boys, good thing we brought the eye soap.
Shop o' the mornin', Homer! Just call me "Mall" Flanders.
You betcha! This kiosk sells personalized movies. I had one made starring little Rod.
Now Rainier, I really don't think it's right to sell these Playdude centerfolds.
Well, aren't you a super-duper recouper.
Praise the Lord, my seat has scored!
You betcha. It's a nice break from the male sports I usually watch.
Oh sure, speed walking, ballroom dancing, rhythmic gymnastics, extreme choir...
Gosh, fifty thousand dollars? I'm donating this whole check to "Bibles for Belgians."
Well, hot dog!
That cuts the mustard with me.
The steering wheel is a giant onion ring!
Well, whatever I've got I owe to hard work, honest living, and flossing my teeth, tail and toes. Plus a little prayer now and then.
Homer, please don't sue the church. I'm asking you as your friend and neighbor.
Okely dokely.
Why do I always give in to him?
It's his skull. It's hypnotic!
And Rev, you'll be bunkin' with me!
Where you going, Reverend? The town's that way. Reverend? You're goin' the wrong way!
No, no, you're lying! You're lying! What makes you lie?
They've broken every commandment except one!
That's it. The whole shebang.
Lord, this town may have turned its back on you, but not the Flanderses. Wherever we are, you'll have your church. Are you with me, boys?
Speaking in tongues. What great kids.
Okay boys, this is it. The end of this sinful little suburb.
Okay, I've got two of every animal. But only males -- I don't want any hanky-panky. Hey, hey, hey, cut that out!
Well, Sea Captain, looks like you and I are sailin' solo tonight.
Well, guess I might as well head back to my store. I've got a date with some twins: my state and federal tax forms.
Form of business? Sole proprietorship. "Owner's marital status?" Happily married... to a dead woman.
Mm hmm! Open as a tomb on Easter. Now, what can I ding dong diddily do for ya?
Oh, I should say not. I gave up on L.A. when those TV people made that poor nun fly. All those Puerto Ricans lookin' up her dress. That's not right.
Do I! No I don't. But I can have 'em here by Tuesday.
Why, you are gorgeous.
I sure do. You're the most important person in the world, because you're my customer.
I'm as real as the nose on your face.
Well, it looks good... and it sounds pretty too.
A woman askin' a man out? Well, well why not. And maybe I'll eat my steak with a spoon.
What the...? That's a pseu-diddily-eudonym.
WELL I'VE GOT A DATE WITH A GIRL WITH NO NAME / IT SURE FEELS GOOD TO BE BACK IN THE GAME / AT DESSERT MAYBE I CAN ASK HER HER NAME / 'CAUSE I CAN'T PRAY FOR HER WITHOUT THE RIGHT NAME...
I've got a date with a movie star?!
Psst! Homer!
I need your advice. It's about a lady.
No, it's Sara Sloane. I have a date with her tonight.
Yep. Why would that Twinkie want to go out with a ding dong like me?
Well sir, that's very encouraging but I can't date a movie star. I'm no Arthur Miller or Lyle Lovett.
... Rod says "Marco," and darn it if Todd doesn't say "Polo" right back! Oh, listen to me just running my gums about my kids. You're probably bored silly.
Huh.
Heaven's gate! I'm gonna be tastin' you on my mustache for a week.
Yep, we occupy that useless mass of land between Los Angeles and New York. Called America!
Oh now, if someone took the time to press that little button, this is the least I can do.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. This movie's turning into Sponge Bob No-Pants!
Sir, there's no reason Sara needs to do this scene in the altogether.
Yep. Now all we gotta do is turn that woman into a fella and that kiss into a game of Scrabble.
Well, that's uh, very interesting...
Mm-hmm. I haven't felt this good since we stole the 2000 election.
The paparazzi! I thought we fooled them with our Cher-crow.
I'll have you know she pays full price for all her watercraft!
Exact-a-tically-tacally!
No way! I won't even eat vegetables over two inches long.
So anyway, uh, your movie's wrapping up soon. I guess you'll be headin' out on the first bus to the airport. If you ride with a friend, you can save twenty bucks!
Ned Flanders in Tinseltown?
Can I call you Jim?
Well, I can't see the harm.
Noooo!
Well, I...
Noooo!
Sara, I'm sorry, but I can't move to Hollywood. Heck, even Dollywood's too far out for me. Too many people appreciating it ironically.
Forgive my language, but I am one happy camper!
Well, what seems to be the problem, officer?
Sure is nice to be shopping for a woman again. The last thing I bought for a lady was a casket.
Well of course. Wait a minute. This is to adopt two of your kids.
Hop to it, honey! If we get to the Pops concert early, we can give up our seats to some old people.
Sweetie, that's not the kind of dress you wear outdoors... or indoors... or in a dirty dream.
Well, Siegfried and Roy create a lot of illusions, but I doubt their girlfriends dress like that.
Sara, I hate to say it, but your top's upstaging the Pops!
Sara, I love ya, but I get the feeling you're just... not a Ned-head tonight. Is something wrong?
Se... well, that's a mighty big... kettle of... premarital... uh, doodly...
This is quite a dil-diddly-lemma. I better talk this over with the big man.
Homer, Sara wants us to have S-E-X.
Well, I'm not sure I want to do it. I mean "who'll buy the cow when you get the milk for free?" You know, the cow being me.
Well, I consulted my bible and found some verses supporting what you want to do.
And a lot of verses against it.
It says a man should make restitution if he eats his neighbor's grain. And that's good enough for me.
That's what Maude used to say.
Well, and you will. Right after the wedding.
Uh hmm. That's right. I'm like Baskin Robbins. You get one free taste then you gotta buy the scoop.
I love you, too. And I always will. But unlike the Bible, I guess this isn't gonna have a happy ending.
I'm sorry.
Oh, darn the luck. That sounds like the Lupus Fun Run.
I bet we woulda lasted twice that long.
You know it's the darndest thing -- women love you when you've dated a movie star.
Why don't you pound that sign into your own lawn?
And it wouldn't hurt you to put up some curtains.
Ooh, that's quite a thing-a-ma-jigsaw. But it looks like you're missin' a piece.
I walked right into that one.
Uh, Homer, I think you want your house, next door.
Hey Homer, writing a new Christmas carol?
Well, the Bible says it's fun to do stuff together.
THERE'S A STRANGER IN THE MANGER AND HIS NAME IS LOVE Take it, Homer!
Oh, I got it -- you want me to stay out here and work on the chorus.
Why thank you, Homer. It's a popsicle in my favorite flavor -- plain.
THEN I DOUBT YOU'LL LIKE NED FLANDERS / OR HIS CREEPY LITTLE OFFSPRING, ROD AND TODD...
I got your letter, Jesus and I'm coming as fast as I can.
Well, the folks at the senior center sure will love that peach tree we planted.
Sin of pride, Roddy.
Sin of regret.
The house is slightly askew! To the panic room!
Scared of what? All the funny camp songs we're gonna sing? WE'LL BE SAFE INSIDE OUR FORTRESS WHEN THEY COME / WE'LL BE SAFE FROM CREEPS AND KILLERS WHEN THEY COME / UNLESS THEY HAVE A BLOWTORCH / OR A POISON GAS INJECTOR / THEN I DON'T KNOW WHAT'LL HAPPEN WHEN THEY COME!
Of course I am. They were bigger than Jesus! But your boy went Yoko and broke up my collection.
Oh our courts aren't fit to keep children in line. The only thing they're good for is telling women what to do with their bodies. What these boys need is adult supervision.
Well, I did finish first in the Walk For The Cure... of homosexuality.
Ahhhh...
I'm dying! And there's Heaven. But who's that? Confucius? And Milton Berle? Boy, have I been barkin' up the wrong tree.
Oh well, you snooze you lose. But uh, can I have my photo albums back?
Well, the hobos sure will appreciate our old clothes and lima beans.
Gee, looks like this town has a good Sam log-jam.
That was Led Zeppelin.
Well, maybe just a tad, Todd.
One problem at a time, boy.
HERE COME SANDWICHES / HERE COME SANDWICHES / RIGHT DOWN BOOZY BUM LANE...
BROTHER NED'S GOT CHEESE ON BREAD / AND A SIDE ORDER OF SHAME...
Where the H-E-C-K is everybody?
Wha?
Oh, for the love of puppies.
That Homer just burns my waffles!
Pain is the cleanser! Pain is the cleanser!
Why, I'll give you a jump, I'll rotate your tires, I'll even fold up that map for you. I know they can be a dickens of a doozy...
That tears it. I'll show Homer. I'm gonna be the nicest man this world has ever seen.
I said "man," not "man-God." Keep your pants on.
Here you go, Principal Skinner, Mrs. Skinner.
My angle is givin' in this world, livin' in the next.
Well, actually, I picked up some extra cash renting out my house to a fraternity.
Stop!
Friends, what Homer did was wrong. But I've been thinking -- maybe I was just as wrong to give you those gifts.
"And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people...
It'd be my pleasure, Homer!
That is one bitchin' bike!
Lighten up, Roddy.
Hey Marge, you look like you could use a nice big stud... detector.
They were two for one at Krusty Home Depot, so I got an extra one for you guys!
Well, some say being thoughtful is old-fashioned. If so, then I guess I'm just a cave man. If they existed, which they didn't!
Well, I guess it wouldn't kill me to let you in.
Well, he's got me there.
Dear Lord, please make Homer's blows precise and deadly with a minimum of pain. Oh, and forgive me for those impure thoughts I had about the girl on the raisin box.
Huh?
Advice? Just call me Ann Flanders!
Oh, and another thing...
...and a backrub can just be a backrub. It doesn't have to lead to adult situations.
Now now, remember why we're here: to celebrate Jasper's birthday.
Oh, thank God. You're finally fighting your demons.
Well, that's good too, I guess.
Huh, credit card bill seems a little chunky this month.
Let's see what's goin' on vis a vis the VISA.
Well this is one dilly of a daily, Lisa. Can't wait for tomorrow's!
Concussion... diddily... hemorrhage... doodily... injury... bodily...
Come on, Ned. Just because you foresaw Dr. Hibbert's death doesn't mean you can see into the future. It was just a sinister co-inky-dink.
Just wriggle loose. I'll catch ya, li'l critter!
What the Family Circus? A second premonition came to fruition.
Lord, why have you given me these unholy visions of doom?
Well I didn't need any special power to know that was comin'.
Homer, I can foretell people's deaths!
Uh, you die eating a submarine sandwich.
Country parmesan.
'Cause I had a vision of myself... shooting your father.
Don't worry, sweetie. I am not going to kill your father.
Homer, please, don't tempt the gods. I-I mean God! There's-there's one God! Only one! Well, sometimes there's three.
Quit whackin' my barrel!
You leave me no choice!
I was supposed to shoot you, but I didn't! I changed the future!
What have I done? I've changed the future for the worse.
Homer, stay away from the nuclear plant.
But you're gonna kill us all...
I gotta find Homer -- he's gonna blow up the whole town!
Homer! Homer!
Homer! Do not press the core destruct button!
Press... destruct... button.
Don't do it! Don't do it! You'll kill everyone!
Do it! Do it! Kill everyone!
Must... kill... best friend.
Homer, fall backward!
Oh, you stupid son-of-a...
I just told the natives they were havin' sex the wrong way!
Marge, you know I thought I was Springfield's wing ding king, but uh, you make my chicken look like cock-a-diddily doo doo.
You know I was gonna enter this here Ovenfresh Bakeoff... but up against you, I wouldn't have a Hindu's chance in Heaven.
Well, my Roddy told a joke about an octopus and a set of bagpipes -- and the punchline implied that they fornicated!
Let's see... "Get Bent." Well, the only thing that could mean is kneel down and pray. We'll take the whole box. Get bent, everyone!
I can't run, I'm wearing flip-flops!
Help me out, Homer. My little Roddy needs his insulin. Breaks my heart to watch him jones-diddly-ownsing.
I don't claim to be the perfect neighbor...
I was just telling him how brave he is to worship a false god.
Well where's your super-team now?
But the infinite beauty-- / But the Bible says--
Why don't you just call out for Hawk Man?
Hello, neighborino to the north. I sure like the cut of your gibberish.
They warned me Satan would be attractive. Let's go.
Anyone want some coffee for the ride back?
Not that convenience store crap, is it? Because I don't feed that to my dogs.
No, no, it's home-brewed.
Careful, it's hotter than a Fox News weather skank.
Here, let me wrap this wet towel around your head to cool you off.
One hundred dollars and fifty cents!
Well sir, I don't believe we've ever met.
Well, I'll just call you friend. Here's your tape... friend.
There's nothing but filth on TV. But with this new video camera, we can make our own entertainment!
Now boys, we're gonna film the world's first and some would say best murder mystery -- the story of Cain and Abel!
Your mouth is hopin' for a soapin', boy! Now stop asking silly questions and go kill your brother!
Reverend, thanks for turnin' the church into a He-without-cineplex.
Boys, I just talked to God. He's vacuuming Heaven to get it ready for when dead people show up. And He'd like you both to render a sacrifice.
Now I must bury my son, while you wander the earth forever, with the mark of evil upon your face.
Now, there's no need to actually whip 'em. We can put the sound in later.
But who'd know the difference?
Oh, I-I guess you'd rather see a film about a liberal European wizard school, or the latest sexcapade of Miss Ashley Judd!
Yeah. I made a great film, but I'm havin' trouble gettin' it out there. I'm like Michael Moore, except I'm skinny, my jeans are washed, and God loves me. I just wish I could find some way to spread my message.
Are you even listening to me?!
Wait a minute -- you've got a medium and I've got a message. Maybe God brought us together for a reason.
"So God blessed Noah and his sons, and said to them... Never again shall there be a flood to destroy the Earth. I set My rainbow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between God and man." Thank you.
Well now Roddy, the Lord wouldn't let us die this way.
Well, we could use a new H.Q. for the Springfield Philharmonic. They're playing Gustav Mahler in abject squalor.
Hey Homer!
Yes... but my mower can't get much lower!
I was wrong!
Sorry, Homer. You'll have to call me a Ray-theist, 'cause I don't believe I saw him.
Gee, I thought my vision was perfect. And here I was, worshiping false eyeballs.
Uh son, we're here to help with your... which addict-a-diddily-diction are we goin' after here?
Well, well, well, looks like someone's having a pre-Rapture party.
Howdy, Homer. You here for a viewin' of my shampooin'?
Oh, sorry, but I promised to rewind videotapes for the poor.
All right, neighbor, I'll baby-sit.
Yeah, so I can't see my own shrinky dink.
Oh-uh-uh... sorry Maggie, that's something to collect, not enjoy. It's one of my Humble figurines.
He scampered out of Parade magazine and into my knick-knack nook, and uh, well his little buddies soon followed.
You like 'em, huh? Come on, I'll show you the other three hundred.
How could this have... oh.
Boys, enough of your shenanigans. It's bedtime.
Oh, I can't take money from a neighbor. Although, business at the Leftorium's been pretty slow since that big chain store came to town.
Well, it might be fun to be a landlord. Landfella -- there's only one Lord!
Well, I'd love to help you out, but you do have to be over eighteen.
Wait, this is my license!
Well, I do appreciate that you've got a cashier's check... Now, do you have any pets?
You poor thing! I've heard about those robes -- flapping everywhere. Girls, welcome to your very own Ned and Breakfast.
Here's your room, ladies. You can catch some Z's while you earn those degrees.
Well, thank you.
I got phi beta cappuccinos for Ned's pre-meds!
That's odd.
I coulda sworn I just heard someone shriek my name.
Oh, that's better.
Well, Mel, they're swell.
You soft-core sophomores took advantage of my trustful nature. And sullied the internet by putting pornography on it!
Get out!
The whole town is laughing at me behind my back. I guess you're the only real friend I have.
Homer, is this true?
The Bible says "cast your bread upon the waters." But all I got was a bunch of soggy bread.
Don't say it, Homer. This is not the time.
Well, Toddy, you know how I said our friends are like the Canaanites? Today I realized they're more like the Midianites.
I wish we lived in a place more like the America of yesteryear that only exists in the brains of us Republicans.
"Made in Humbleton, PA." I don't usually make big life decisions based on things stamped on things that I bought at a garage sale. But corndog it boys, it's time for a change!
The Flanders family has pulled up stakes. You have laughed at us for the last-diddily-ast time.
Boys, we're home!
This town is sweeter than a cake made of pie. Even the dogs curb themselves.
Can I start yesterday?
Get rid of Dr. Fuzzenstein? Why, I couldn't dream of thinking about considering...
I'll see what I can do.
You know what? I'm not gonna. My mustache has the right to life -- it's my body and my choice!
Homer? What are you doing here?
Why? So you can make me a laughingstock again?
Well, that is true. In fact--
Homer, that's really touching. But my boys and I are trying to make a new start, and the people here are a little more my cup of...
That tears it! Boys, put on your goody two-shoes. We're moving back to Springfield!
Now you've got a pen pal.
So you see Mr. Roberts, I really would like my house back.
Now coach, I've tried to be Christian and respectful, but I guess I'm just gonna have to point out your two hundred thousand dollar check bounced. Legally, I still own this house.
Homer!
Did you steal the organ from the church?!
Well, you've gotta take it back!
It sure is great to look down my nose at everybody again. Mind if I waggle my finger a little bit?
Marge, this calls for an emergency meeting of the church's spiritual council. To Stuckey's!
Bart and Homer can't go Catholic! The Romans have been separate from us since the Schism of Lourdes in 1573. And that was about our holy right to come to church with wet hair. Which we've since abolished.
Oh, we've gotta stop 'em now! Once they seal the deal, there's no turning back. Like the Jews with their snippity-snip.
Back off, you servants of the Holy See!
He's right. Can't we all get together and concentrate on our real enemies: monogamous gays and stem cells?
My pleasure.
It's seven a.m. What are they cock-a-doodily-doin'?
Okily-dokily, here's some French roast, now I'll go make toast.
Hey Homer, why the sour puss? Didja chugalug a skunky Snapple?
Really? Do you mind if I bring my boys over so she can infect Rod and Todd? Then there'll be a pox on both our houses!
Au contraire, man with no hair! You see, Rod and Todd can only get the chicken pox once, and childhood's the safest time!
You betcha! In fact, some parents have been known to hold "pox parties," so other kids in the neighborhood can get the disease when they please.
Well, they might. But you'd have to be awfully money-grubbing to charge your friends and neighbors...
Hi-diddly-ho! There's "no bot" like a robot!
Ow! My Flander-doodles!
Please change me back! This bumble bee has developed an unhealthy obsession with me.
I don't want flowers. I am a flower!
Christ is born, who's on my horn?
You want me to deliver the Christmas sermon? I feel like I'm born again again!
Don't be nervous, Ned. You've practiced this so many times in the shower.
Aagh! Paper cut!
My LP of "Dreamcoat!"
HOW I LOVE MY COAT OF MANY COLORS / IT WAS RED AND YELLOW AND GREEN AND BROWN / AND SCARLET AND BLACK AND OCHRE AND PEACH / AND RUBY AND OLIVE AND VIOLET AND FAWN...
...AND LILAC AND GOLD AND CHOCOLATE AND MAUVE / AND CREAM AND CRIMSON AND SILVER AND ROSE / AND AZURE AND LEMON AND RUSSET AND GREY...
AND PURPLE AND WHITE AND PINK AND ORANGE / AND RED AND YELLOW AND GREEN AND BROWN / SCARLET AND BLACK AND OCHRE AND PEACH...
This is my favorite kind of surprise: mild!
Hey Marge, I don't I don't really want a computer. You know all those complete strangers Googling each other. Makes my flesh crawl.
Well sir, we could do a little Quid Pro for the Kay-Pro. The left-handed convention is in town, and as the owner of Springfield's largest southpaw shop, I just gotta be there. Could you uh, nanny-goat my kid-diddly-ids?
Woo hoo!
I'm so glad you're watchin' the boys, Marge. Our last babysitter let 'em watch "Comedy Central", now Rod makes me check the closet every night for Rita Rudner.
Here are the numbers for the police, fire, ambulance, poison control, burn clinic, and people nearby with Rod and Todd's blood type.
Ooh, wow, it's the Big Unit himself, Randy Johnson! You've fanned more men than Salome!
Do you have one for a mailman?
Um, one box?
Hiya Marge. Rod and Todd in the land of nod?
Hey, you're welcome to see the dynamic duo any time.
Hey Homer! Sneakin' kisses from the Missus?
What are you doing?! You're gonna get hurt!
Well, well. Look at my dull-eyed angels.
What's this?
It's the ripcord from a Band-Aid wrapper! Call me Ned Zeppelin, but is one of my boys abrased and contused?
Well, I think it's about time you boys get to bed.
And so we don't have another disaster, you crawl up those steps!
I just can't. They're all I've got since that sad day when Maude found eternal happiness.
Well, their mascot is a kneepad wearing a helmet... why not?
I'm not Ned, I'm a friendly dog. Oh, I'm not a good liar. I did come here to check on the... where's Rod?
He chipped a tooth! How will he bite Wheat Thins? How?
I don't want you watching my boys ever again!
WELCOME TO THE JUNGLE GYM / I'LL MAKE IT SAFE AGAIN / WHEN PLAYTIME IS A SAFE TIME, EVERYBODY WINS...
NOW I'LL LAY DOWN SOME ASTRO TURF / SO THEY DON'T SCRAPE THEIR N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-KNEES...
Well, we're gonna do what every kid your age likes to do: look at bread.
The 'N' word!
Uno?! That's a gateway game to pinochle. All diddily aside, boys, what is it about her you miss so much?
Roddy, get down! You're gonna fall!
Rod... You can do it, boy! With God on your side, you can't fail!
Evolution?!
Lord, with you watching over me I shall feel no pain.
Only ten dollars to paint my curb like a common whore? Well I'm happy to pay for a three-digit spray! Tell you what, I'll give you another hundred if you paint my garage!
I'll throw in some Christian comic books!
Please! Somebody take 'em!
Hi-dilly ho, Simpsons!
Wait, wait, ho-hold the phone there Homer...
Oh, fine. Take the cut.
Tell you what -- if we turn around, it'll feel like we're at the front of the line!
You're leavin' already? We, we haven't even gotten in yet.
Excuse me. How can you put up an exhibit on the origin of man and not have one mention of the Bible?
My most cherished beliefs -- a myth?
No one was ever a monkey! Everything is what it was and always will be! God put us here and that's that!
Um, that was God disguised as a stork.
There's no such thing as storks! It's all God!
Stop praying to that stork!
They're telling people we're descended from a pack of apes. Even though there's nothing about it in the Bible!
We want you to teach alternative theories to Darwinian evolution.
As familiar as it's proper to be.
As sure as I am that Jesus hates Hip Hop!
As a matter... Homer...
Homer, I'm tryin' to...
Will you shut your yap, ya big monkey-faced gorilla!!!
You win, Lisa.
Let's go, boys. Your poor old Popsicle's been licked.
Well, I wish this world would evolve a few more kids like you, Lisa.
What say we take our worthy adversary out for a hot fudge fun-day?
Whaa -- ?
Hi-diddily-ho, mob-areenos!
I... uh... I got your phone bill in my mail by mistake... and, uh... I'll just pay it.
Hiddily-ho, Blobareeno.
Marge, I hate to interrupt the ol' solilo-diddly-iloquy, but I just want to thank you for your early Christmas card.
Isn't this your posse on this glossy?
Oh I don't mean to cause Gil ill will, but still...
Marge, I've never seen you like this before.
Tonight's G-rated gem is a silent film from my favorite year -- yester! And while you enjoy this quiet riot, I'll be slipping these religious pamphlets on your windshields.
Start 'er up, boys!
He's the kindest, sweetest most generous man ever to drive through my living room.
Oh, I wish! No, these are complimentary boxes from the shipping company.
Only if he fibbed about his name, age, and occupation on this automated eight-hundred number.
Why don't you put this box by your phone so you don't call the number by accident.
Homer, you've met my parents.
This is it, boys -- One more out and we go to the championship game. Let's do it for Groundskeeper Willie... who made me this beautiful black bicep warmer!
Now Bart, stay humble! Your baseball cap won't fit over a swelled head.
A damp sponge will take care of this weak, water-based... it's oil-based! Oil-based!
Fetch Daddy's thinner, boy.
You just fetch it!
Okay, "Smallville"... super dog licks himself. That definitely goes in the naughty pile!
Sixty Minutes -- Morley Safer has questionable pants fold -- "The L Word" -- used the "L" word.
And now to peruse the local news!
God's least favorite word, uttered on the public airwaves!
To: Online Christian Soldiers... Subject: Televised Super Swear...
Imploring people I never met to pressure a government with better things to do to punish a man who meant no harm for something nobody even saw. That's what I'm doing!
First things first!
Hey Homer!
Why the crescendo, my dear old friend-o?
Okily-dokily!
Top of the mornin', Tow-mer!
So it is! I'm just here to pay the fine for the Sunday School bus. You towed it with the kids still in it!
You know what they say: "With great power comes great responsibility."
Perhaps I can be of some assistance.
I've got something that will scare the H-E-double sippy straws out of them.
Welcome to Heck House! You're about to discover what a life of sin will get you!
Just get in there!
Welcome to eternal darnation!
No, the lesson here is he's being punished for thinking women are beautiful.
Please, Lord, grant me the power to psychologically torture them into loving you.
Behold, the las-diddily-ast room of Ned Flanders's hell house!
Springfield is rife with the seven deadly sins! Starting with... GLUTTONY!
Anger!
Pride!
Sloth!
And the rest!
Lust!
Greed!
And envy!
And this is where sinners spend all of eternity!
Well then, my work is done.
That concludes our Halloween show for this year. I just want to say that for watching this network, you're all going to Hell. And that includes FX, Fox Sports and our newest Devil's portal, The Wall Street Journal! Welcome to the club!
I had to -- I heard a hubbub, Bub.
I can't say for sure, but as a Christian, I assume the worst.
What're we gonna do? We can't not vote. Nobody does that!
Hey, can I give you folks a lift?
Banks? Well deposit yourselves in a seat 'cause you've earned my interest!
They're outlaws?! I've been played like a pair of spoons! Well, who am I to judge -- it's the Depression, money's tight...
Unmarried?! That's it, I'm turning 'em in.
Listen Sheriff, I can help you take down Bonnie and Clyde.
Um... the battery seems to be dead. I'll get some help by hidin' in that bush.
C'mon, shoot! Shoot!
Not me!
As the oak said to the beagle, you're barkin' up the wrong tree. I spent the whole morning blackin' out the "goshes" and "darns" in these Hardy Boys books.
Okily dokily!
Ah, "heck," "darn" -- I don't think so.
Ow! What was that for?
Zippin' it up!
My aquarium!
Oh for crying out loud -- people aren't mice!
Look Homer, people don't come back as anything -- except for our Lord, who came back as bread. That's it.
Even the sing-alongs?
Bullet-proof glass.
Yep, I'm just replacing the front window at my store, which was broken in the riot.
Young man, what would your mother say if she knew you were shooting nice people in the brain?
Well son, if you take responsibility for your actions, this could be the start of a better life for you.
Homer, you could've killed him!
Now I can clearly see potential customers walk right past my store. Enjoy your shopping elsewhere!
What the?
Us... a team? As the salad said to the soup, "I'm all mixed up."
Well... I could use money. But you have to promise me something, Homer.
We have to do everything by the book.
My friend, you have a deal-arooney!
Dear Lord, thank you for creating so many evil criminals for us to bring in. And also, thank you for my partner Homer, who...
Did you just taser my coffee?
Homer, can we take it easy on the taser?
Our first bail jumper!
Homer, take the taser out of your pants.
Bible salesman!
Homer, I don't think we have the same musical tastes.
I like their Christian cover band: A.D.-B.C.! KINDLY DEEDS / DONE FOR FREE / KINDLY DEEDS
KINDLY DEEDS / DONE FOR FREE
KINDLY DEEDS / AND THEY'RE DONE FOR FREE / KINDLY DEEDS / AND THEY'RE DONE FOR FREE
Hm. I've never seen anyone eat pizza like that.
Man, that's harder to swallow than evolution.
Not bad.
Oh, kitten whiskers!
Lord, in your mercy, could you give my friend a stroke?
Homer, you can't drive a car onto a subway! You need a special sticker just to bring a bike! Have you no respect for the law?
Homer, no! You promised... Everything was supposed to be by the book!
This partnership is over!
You know, if you take your foot off the accelerator going downhill, you wouldn't use so much gas.
Lucky Jim, I'm out of the bounty hunting business.
Forget it! I am turning in my... well, I don't really have anything to turn in. So that's that! I suggest you call Homer Simpson.
Homer!
Not interested.
I'm sure they're all competent professionals, but you'd best leave it to me.
You jumped bail, Homer. I gotta bring you in.
I figured a good time to pick you up was when they were at Lisa's recital.
Lucky guess.
For the last few weeks. But most of the time I've known you you've treated me like dirt!
I forgave you for accidentally killing my wife.
I like you too, but you broke the law. So I've got to bring you in.
Thanks, but... what are you holding on to?
"...lest I come and strike the earth with a curse." Thus ends the book of Malachi. I guess I did know the whole Old Testament by heart. Out with the old... in with the new. Testament, that is. Matthew One. "The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham..."
...Abraham became the father of Isaac. Isaac became the father of Jacob. Jacob became the father of Judah and his brothers. Judah became the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar.
Perez became the father of Hezron. Hezron became the father of Ram.
Howdy-do, strangers! Hop on in before you become a couple runneth over!
And in that mud, I'm plantin' the seed of friendship. Name's Ned Flanders!
As the elephant said to the peanut vendor, toss those in my trunk!
Put 'er there, muddy buddy.
Really? Not married? And you were bicycling two abreast?
Wordplay: never cared for it. But it's never too soon for you two to join the "I do" crew. Now I'm not sayin' it's all Jell-O with Cool Whip. She'll nag ya. She'll try to change ya. You'll be fighting the same basic fight for years and years and years--
I think I'd like to finish my sentence: and years.
Since two this afternoon. Welcome to our honeymoon!
Well, when the sun goes down it means God's gone to China to watch over those good folks. Time for some shuteye.
Sorry, Homer, I'm afraid it's separate accommodations for you notly-weds.
That's just your trouser devil talking!
Goodnight, Marge.
Sweet dreams, my new best friend.
Oh, what better way to celebrate our wedding night than by keeping an unmarried couple apart?
Aw, Maude. Your dead grandmother's pajamas. You know what that does to me.
So... I'm sure you missed Marge last night.
What a charming single entendre. Now look, I know marriage is scary, but if you really think she's the one, it gives you two a shot at forever.
Okay, here she comes! Why don't you take Marge for a walk, open your heart and see what pours out?
Don't you think I've got better things to do on my honeymoon than spy on you two?
Red Dog, this is Mustache One. We have possible male/female interaction -- be prepared to terminate inappropriate contact.
Lock onto his wiener.
As the worm said to the plate of spaghetti, "I... I...
I noticed.
Well, Homer, maybe I could use a break from the ol' Weed 'N' Feed.
Three... two... one... it's Ash Wednesday everybody! Set down your gins and confess your sins!
One hundred and one thousand!
So I can rent it back to you. Just pay what you can till you get back on your feet.
Well sir, as the ocean said to the dirt, I appreciate the sediment.
Say Homer, why don't you let me take a peek at that leak?
Well, actually... as your landlord, repairs are my responsibility. I'll just get my tools...
Try 'er now, Marge.
Well, I guess I'd better be...
Well, as you are my tenants, I'll see what I can do.
When I was putting new insulation in your attic, I slipped on this lamp and really banged my head.
So, unless you have anything else for me...
Hello?
Well, I'm sorry, I just had my glass of warm milk which means I am closed for business!
The rent check is late.
Let's see what else is on.
Oh, this is good.
Homer Simpson, I took pity on you, and what do I get in return? A kick in the kadiddlehopper!
It's not funny! That's how I swear!
When the month is up, I want you out!
Wha? Who's that?
Uh, say, "Jesus," what was the name of the son of Zachariah?
Because your father lives with me now.
You two are the kind of tenants every landlord dreams of: excellent credit, Christian but not Baptist, and let's see: according to your application you only have sex for procreation.
My ballpoint is all clicked-up for you.
Lord, you said love thy neighbor, but you didn't have to make it so easy.
Oh, that's just a family... who used to... make my life, uh... interesting.
Folks...
I'm afraid you can't live here.
Well, the people who lived here before, um, weren't always the best neighbors. But I love 'em. And, uh, you can't be a saint unless you live among the lepers. Hope you don't mind.
I think you should. The court papers will be a great way to stay in touch.
It's okay if you backslide a little.
The Simpsons are back!
Hey, cool your jets! We're trying to get to sleep!
Well, yes.
Iddily-iddily-iddily-iddily-iddily-iddily-iddily...
The Parson?! He's coming here?
Parson! Parson! Give us a quick official church position on family.
You just made my moustache tingle!
Settle. Settle down.
Reverend, care for some of my devils food cake?
No, it's angels food with chocolate on top.
One cran-bran for the Flan-man.
Diddily...
Well boys, Daddy's back on the beam, thanks to Christian prayer and Doctor Sheldon Lowenstein!
Oh, I'd put rocks into your pockets and walk you out to sea before that happened.
Okily-dokily. But I'm warning you, you're gonna see America's number-one dishwashing crew!
Then I give 'em the squeak test and into the dishwasher they go!
oh, they're grounded. I found out Rod watched a commercial for "Grey's Anatomy," and Todd took a full day to tell me.
What's the next task on the old i-dinnerary?
Saved by the bell from eternity in Hell!
Marge, that dinner was a winner! What's for dessert?
I never thought otherwise.
Well, see ya 'round the mailbox, Marge.
My wife? And my worst friend? Could it be?
Naw.
Just as I feared: her Buddhism has led directly to witchcraft.
And she's teleconferencing the Devil using that computer from Hell!
We'll let the authorities sort that out.
Top of the mornin', Homer.
Seen the paper?
Well, sir, it looks like your Dad is a quotable notable.
You know Marge, Maude and I had a fight right before she died...
You know, maybe I should use a towel marked "B.D.D." -- big diddily deal!
I play that fight over in my mind a thousand times a day.
What about Sodom and Gomorrah?
Thank you all for coming.
Now let's start with the words everyone loves to hear: "Welcome to Bible study!"
Today, my readin' ribbon's smack dab in the middle of Matthew twenty-three.
Now let us "download" the holy "tweet" of the Lord.
Duly noted. But we will make sure not to dilute the sacred gospel.
Mouse pad! Double click! Skyyype! Uh, Skyyype! Matthew twenty-three: "Then spake Jesus to the multitude, and to his disciples, saying--"
I'll handle this.
Homer Simpson! You are the most infuriating, Netflix-D.V.D.-burgling, barbecue-not-putting-out...
...man I ever met!
That man is beyond redemption!
I sense a "but" coming, Reverend...
Oh Reverend, I've been workin' my bible to the bone tryin' to save that man.
Homer? Homer?
Y'know, our bible study group is going to the Holy Land next month. I'd like you and your family to come as my guests.
Yep. I also want to try something called "pita bread."
The Old City. Where B.C. turned into A.D.! Let's go!
Homer, that's not why we're here. We can see the stations of the cross!
Okay, let's just put it to a vote.
I can't believe we lost, Reverend.
Lord, please help Homer experience the redemptive power of this sacred land.
Homer, do you think you could show just the slightest bit of reverence?
Homer, could you at least turn the camera off?
Homer...
Bleh.
Y'know, Homer, you might really benefit from opening your heart to the spirituality of this place. Please, neighbor?
Yes, but it means more to you.
Lord, I think I may have finally reached him...
Bleh! Bleh! Bleh!
Homer, quit playing that back.
And Lord, thank you for letting me see this wonderful place where the end of the world will soon begin. And thank you, again, for the challenge of Homer Simpson... we've all got our crosses to bear. Me Homer, you the cross. And now, let me gaze with reverence upon the holy resting place of...
Homer, this is the most sacred spot in Christendom, not your backyard hammock.
Unknown? This is the tomb of the most famous man who ever lived!
Porky Pig's not a man, he's a pig! And he's not even a real pig!
That's it. I'm losin' it. I'm losin' it!
You come all the way to Jerusalem -- the happiest place on earth -- and all the photos in your camera are of funny soda pops?!
Delete! Delete! Delete!
Please, you've gotta let me back in. I sold six thousand rolls of wrapping paper to get here!
Banned for life?
Homer, do you know why I'm a Christian?
It's because I believe every soul has the possibility of salvation. At least I thought so till now. Homer Simpson, you are not worth saving.
Not. Worth. Saving.
Nothing like a tall glass of luke-warm water to Jekyll down this Hyde.
Ooo, looks like a sandstorm's brewin'. I'll just wait it out at a movie.
I did it! I reached him!
Homer, my friend, of all the false messiahs today, I think you came closest to the truth.
I'd like that.
You'd probably get a better deal at a mall back home.
Okily dokily.
Hot cocoa?
Homer, this meeting of your "fan club" is adjourned!
Uh-oh.
I've got two teens in a public park goin' at it like a couple of gibbons in the back seat of Noah's Ark!
Maybe. But I feel a little like I'm the Tom Voyeur to these Huckleberry Sinners.
I've gone from lookie-loo to talkie-too.
Excuse me, that's your salad fork!... That Wi-Fi's for hotel guests only!... What's the matter, sir, too cool to sing "Happy Birthday?"
Isn't this great, Marge? We're like Jiminy Cricket for the whole ding-dang town. A half-man, half-bug that knows what's best for everybody. Um-hm.
Ahem!
I spy, with my electronic eye, illegal wagering!
Well, sir, how many times have you been blown up since the cameras went in?
Mm-hmm! Now I'm gonna go tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk till you give the money back. Tsk, tsk, tsk.
Don't use that dog as a ramp...
Less radical... less radical!
Stop gleaming that cube!
Buttocks!
Tushie!
Boy cheeks!... Fanny!... Derriere!... Hiney!... Backside!... ...Cover up that coin slot!
Inspiration Point looks pretty uninspired... All's quiet in Murder Town... Yep, Springfield is cleaner than the Lord's hand towels.
Sour ball, take me away!
Nothin'. Nothin'. Somethin'!
Blind spot?! Mecca?!
Rod? Hold up daddy's shaving mirror out the window, would ya?
I see you now. Rod, you and Todd stay in the house.
De-meat those feet!
I'm standin' right here!
But neighbor... why did you have to do this? I've tattled this town into a paradise!
I guess I did create this... like God created the devil.
I never wanted to turn into Big Brother. I just wanted to be Little Sister, tattlin' on everyone so the town would be a nicer place.
That's the worst sin of all for some reason! What can I do to make things right?
Neighbor, we've got some work to do.
Knock-a-doodle-you!
Neighbor, Marge invited me over to be the little angel on your shoulder, so you wouldn't listen to the four hundred devils on the other.
Howdy, cousin Ted!
Flantastic times two! How are Connie and Bonnie?
Glad to hear it, thank the Holy Spirit!
Actually, God made some fish that were pretty close to these, so naturally we selected those for further breeding.
Yup, that's exactly... Oh, you almost got me.
Not on my watch!
Hey there, neighbor. You look as puffed up as a peacock in a...
Indeedily-doodily I do, and I love him just as much as you! It's a Flanders sandwich with great neighbor bread!
Bart, call me Walter Matthau, 'cause I'm a bad-news bearer. I'm resigning as manager of your Little League team.
In the last game, our shortstop hit a long foul ball, but the umpire called it a homerun... and I let it go without saying a word. I just don't like the monster I've become.
Excuse me! With all this racket, my boys can't get their sixteen hours sleep.
Hey there, Mr. Burns! For our half hour I thought we'd have a picnic in the park.
Oh, don't be scared, boys. That's just the angels bowling.
Homer! Gimme back my tree!
Hey-diddily-hi, Homer.
That feeling is Mutual of Omaha.
Well, maybe your kids didn't.
Well, I got excited for nothing.
I didn't do diddily, and certainly not squat!
Actually, it's kind of cute. You look like Posh Spice.
Oh, isn't that a cute little choo-choo...
It wasn't me, boys! It was the train!
It was right there... with the ... and the...
Did a volcano erupt in Candyland? 'Cause I just caught me a flyin' red hot!
You know, I don't believe we've ever been formally introduced. Anyhoo, so I don't commit the deadliest of sins... omission... here's my card.
Okay, Ms. Krabappel, what made you topple?
Well, I'm a truthful kinda guy.
So, uh, we were talkin' about why you decided to drop in to the "Flanders arms."
Bart Simpson? Why, he lives right next door to me! Yeah, when they made him, they did not skimp on the puppy dog tails.
Homer? Yeah, he's the peanut in your popcorn... lots of fun... I guess. So, what say we have lunch?
...Y'know, I wouldn't mind Homer lying naked in his hammock, but does he have to string it up higher than the fence line?
Oh, I'm afraid my Maudie's putting plastic on the clouds now.
Besides my kids, the only thing in my life is my business... The Leftorium. We've been the anchor store in the "sad mall" for the last ten years.
And you're a former Mrs. So, uh... where's your husband buried?
Oh boy, that laugh is infectious. Ha!... Ha!... that's fun!
Well thank you for taking me to that Pinkberry place. It's a lot less racy than its name would lead you to believe. Crossin' it off my "do-not-go" list.
Well sir, I guess I better refenestrate ya.
Any chance I could see you again?
Whoa, slow down. I never go to "second entendre" on the first date.
Edna, you're a very beautiful woman... but I'm a little uh, you know... uncomfortable with premarital sex.
Oh yes they were! We deliberately chose a Doctor Stork so we could say it without lying.
But I think if we hold off for a while, you'll find I'm well worth the wait. Like a mild cheddar I get tangy when I'm sittin' on the shelf.
Well, a little nibble won't hurt your appetite.
You have the energy for one more?
Oh, what the heck. I know it's impolite to make a move till episode twenty-five of a Ken Burns documentary, but you're that special.
That's right, I'm down to my wife-blesser.
Homer, could you stop throwin' balls over my fence?
Pretty funny, Homer.
Actually... she sort of does.
Language.
And I'll just take my tumbleweed back...
I don't wanna come here. Last time I did, someone slipped me a Mickey and wrote "CHURCHY JOE" on my face.
Oh my.
Yeah, let me guess. You're probably gonna do something boneheaded like try to talk me outta seein' Edna.
Homer, listen to me. For a long time now I've been lookin' over the fence at that wonderful relationship you have with Marge. Then I remember what it was like to have a sweet woman of my own lying in a twin bed across the hall from mine.
Someone to hold the other end of the sheet when I fold it up. Someone to put in my prayers.
That's right. And like any man, I put on my secret Christian underpants one leg at a time.
You all know Edna?
Joey Kramer? The drummer from Aerosmith?
Wait... you've all plucked a peach from her tree?
Well Homer, you really put one over on old stupid Flanders, here. Thanks a lot, neighbor.
No. Just plain neighbor.
Oh I was just wondering how many boxes of staples I should order for the store. Does ten sound like a lot to you? Twenty? Fifty? What does sound like a lot to you?
Maybe we should just call it a night.
I can't do it! Edna, call me Delta Airlines 'cause I can't handle your extra baggage.
Edna, I had a long walk with Homer Simpson yesterday, and as I was carrying him back home, I had a lot of time to think.
You've been with a lot of men, but I forgive you!
I guess this is gonna have to be decided by a higher power.
Hey Simpson, you wanna hear about the big change in my life?
I started drinking orange juice with pulp! I asked the Reverend and he said it was okay. Then he hung right up on me. That man is cranky at three in the mornin'.
We just wanted to give you all a big thank you from Team Nedna.
Springfield. My home town. Pretty little place. Although, even the Garden of Eden could use a nice cleansing rain now and then.
Spend less time on your back and more time on your knees.
No more distractions. I have work to do.
All these years I thought murder was a sin. Then, I got new instructions from the good Lord Himself, through my bible: in his favorite language -- English.
Are you sure, Lord?
And so white-bread Ned became the avenging sword of the Lord.
Peter, Andrew, James the Greater, James the Lesser, John, Philip, Thaddeus!
Heavenly Father, I...
Patty and Selma?! Sure they smoke, and they don't shave much of anything, but... do they deserve to die?
Yes, Lord.
Really?
Homer Simpson!
You made a killer out of me!
I'm gonna kill you!
Because of you I'm going to Hell!
Hell! Damn! Backside! Nothing matters anymore! I'm goin' down and my hand-basket seats two!
Wake up, Flanders! There is no Hell, and there is no God. If there were, would He let me do this?
But, but...
Could this get any worse?
Oh, for cryin' out loud!
Well, looks like it's time for another "'End of the Walk' Talk With Homer and Ned." Tonight's topic: "The Niceness of the Evening."
Homer, all nonsense aside, are you okalidokalaroony?
Y'know, I knew a backstabbin' buckeye named Roz at Bible Camp. Twice as tall as she should've been.
It is! But if you've got the stones, I can tell you how to slay that Gal-ioth.
What the? I've been using that around the boys!
Thank you. Now, it was one of our biggest celebrations...the nineteenth Sunday after Easter. We'd just had a rousing no-fun run and in the heat of the moment I wanted to offer my respectful best wishes.
Peace be with you.
Well, sir, she went crazy. Crazier than sleeping in on a Sunday.
And I haven't. Not until now.
Oh that's nice, but I don't approve of--
Welcome to the "Cross" Games, Simpsons! A Christian fellowship expo!
Oh no, "Games" stands for Gathering of American Messengers for Evangelical Sports!
Sports stands for Strict Parental Oversight Rather Than Sports!
Coggily-doggily.
Sure is! That's why after Homer accidentally killed Edna, I married Maude's ghost!
Isn't she pretty?
I thought I smelled death-a-diddly. What is that, an eight-pointer?
Hey, the only thing left-wing about me is the way I write.
That's just fine as long as you're not a Mormon!
Bedbugs? Just why is there a bed in City Hall?
Make way for Captain Coolerhead!
Now, I like a good old-fashioned witch trial as much as the next person, but I do not think we should be so quick to judge our long-time neighbors...
I withdraw my... diddily...
Hidilly-ho, Dream Team!
Homer, when am I gettin' my power drill back?
Uh, Homer, I'm afraid this is the part of God's perfect plan where you're murdered by robots.
Name's Ned Flanders, credits include Jesus in the passion play last year, Jesus in the passion play the year before that, Jesus, Jesus, a kindly hobo who turns out to be -- you guessed it, St. Peter...
But-but-but...
Well, congratulations, Homer. Guess this is just my cross to bear.
Dear Lord, I know you see all, but trust me, you do not want to see this.
You know, Homer's givin' it the old bible college try. Maybe I should have dialed down the Doubting Thomas.
Lord, forgive me for my pride. All-wise, as always, you have rightly raised Homer above me.
Never again will I question...
/
Diddily... doodily...
No atheist blood, please.
S'okay... she's my wife.
Well, sir, now we'll have an open marriage!
No, but I'm sure Newt Gingrich wouldn't steer us wrong.
'Cause everyone in this town makes such a big heckabaloo out of everything.
Oh Lord, please bless our blended family...
Boys, you will please call your new mother whatever she feels comfortable with.
Homer, did you just buckle your belt through my loop?
Less news from the pews!
Okay Simpsons -- well, call me a cockeyed optimist, 'cause I think some sort of celebration party might possibly be fun.
I'm sorry honey, but I'm stuck in this meeting of the Springfield L.G.B.T. The Left-Gifted, Bidextrous, and Transhanded community. We're tryin' to decide on the theme for our "Left is Right" parade.
This could go late -- we haven't even ordered pizzas and pop yet. Can you handle Rod and Todd's parent-teacher conference for me?
You pulled the boys out of school?!
Well, sir... when we got married, I knew I'd find some spices in my chili. I guess they can go to Springfield Hellementary.
Well, that's just great, boys. Now, come over here so Mrs. Simpson can take a photo.
What if we were raptured right now?
Chillax?! Young man, in the Flanders house, we speak the King's Diddily.
You get my boys tattoos, you change their school, you buy Rod sneakers that light up like Times Square...shoes are shoes and lights are lights! Now, just when do I get a say in how my boys are raised?! This marriage isn't perfect!
Fine, I guess. Thanks for loaning me your pajamas, Homer. And Marge, thank you for those helpful chip bag clips.
I just felt so ashamed I just couldn't go home. Today, I gave in to the one thing I vowed I would never have in my marriage: strong feeling.
So after all this time together, you two still haven't agreed on how to raise your kids?
Pause the assembly! I have to talk to my wife!
Edna, I'm sorry and I'll say it in front of God or Groundskeeper Willie!
Hey, the Simpsons make it up as they go along, and they're as happy as a ribbon in a bible. What do you say, sweetie?
MY MOUSTACHE / IS BRISTLY / MY LETTERS / ARE EPISTLY / AND I DON'T WANNA / MISLEAD YOU / I LIKE TO HUG AND KISSLY--
FIRST BASE, YO! / I LIKE CHRISTIAN RAP / A BIBLE ON MY LAP...
Okily-dokily!
Well, hello! It's one of those music industry superstars who's turning our innocent children into ladies of the night.
Name's Ned Flanders, I've heard of you. Haven't seen so much skin since shedding season on a snake farm.
Yes, but Jesus said that... pretty much the same thing. Darnit, the Bible said the Devil would be attractive!
Unless you're gonna slap some wieners on those, turn 'em off!
Joke's on you, I needed a trim!
Lord, you're testin' me, aren't ya?
Homer! Is that my camera?
Gambling, eh? Satan's most potent recruiting tool!
Diddily, Diddily, diddily, diddily!
Asterisk-pound sign-at sign-exclamation point!
Edna, I'm not one for costumes, but I sure do like that feather in your hair.
Homer! Homer! It's a miracle!
Oh, I will! Till I go to bed and take 'em off under the covers! But come outside and see the miracle!
No, it's still where you buried it.
Here it is. The Holy Ooze.
Look a little closer.
Well, sir, if you ask me, somebody up there is trying to tell you that whatever flat tires you've got in your life, God's there, with His little spare, that enables you to drive real slow till you get to the next station.
Don't eat the miracle!
To be honest, that comes as a tremendous relief.
I just thought if we got together we could change the channel from "The Feud Network" to "Comity Central."
Yes, but there's two sides to every--
Hey, neighbor, your welcome mat's lookin' a little dusty.
Mind if I come over and sweeten your greetin'. Sweeten your greetin'! SWEETEN YOUR GREETIN'!
I hate to be a nag, but this is my real head.
And the spirit of neighborly cooperation broke out as if all the weird angry people had left.
Well, sir, the Lord wouldn't have placed His meter there if He didn't want me to park.
Sure!
Goes with the sugar!
Why don't you come on in and have breakfast with us?
Eh, for a little bit.
Homer, you know my parents, Capri and Nedward.
Dad, don't encourage him.
Now, you know we don't discuss politics at the table!
There's no emergency here! And please charge us for the false report! I'm going out for a power walk.
Six miles and I'm all smiles!
Funyuns?! Little Debbies?!
That's cross-legged music!
Homer! I can't believe you're partaking with my parents!
Marge, I've been racked with guilt and pain... my moustache fell out! This is a clip-on!
Sorry, Homer. Now, do you mind if I pray at your bedside?
Not praying to a character in a comic book.
Neither canonical nor comical.
Not praying to Superman!
That's the plug for the light!
Please don't use that word in bed.
Dare I take another sleep aid?
Better not take a full dose.
See you in eight hours!
Was this always waitin' for me or was it recently thrown together? That's what I wanna know.
No -- not surf and Murph!
The answer to my woe must be in here.
Nope... not that... not to my taste... flag that for later... finally!
I know what I must do.
Homer. Homer! I found the answer!
"Life shall go for life, eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth..."
I would embrace such a glad visit!
I want you to punch me in the eye. If you do, then we're even, according to Exodus, Leviticus and Matthew.
Jeepers creepers, pop my peeper!
Homer, just call me a little bubble 'cause I'm on the level. Punch me.
C'mon, Homer. I'm insisting on a fisting.
What? Why?!
No! You can't! If I'm not as good as you... then I'm horrible!
Now, there's no need to...
Enough!
Now you're rhyming?!
Come on, people! You're safe as Sunday with me. I wouldn't hurt a fly!
Never get into Heaven... took harp lessons for nothing...
My prayers have been answered! Well actually, just this one.
You wanna hit me. Well sir, here's a roll of quarters to put in your fist for extra punching power!
Now you can shatter my orbital bone! That'll knock the wax off my candle!
Edna!
You know how you said you could help me with any desire and nothing was forbidden? Well, sir, I want you to rid of Lisa's bully teacher.
I'm glad the only beef between us is this burger!
How long has it been since we prayed together, neighbor?
Hey, Homer, can I get back my...
Noooo!
Well, the good news is it forced us all to church.
Church!
It's the parson!
Church songs with clapping... I don't think this is what Martin Presbyluther had in mind when he founded our religion by sticking his Three Suggestions under the Pope's windshield wiper.
I don't understand that on any level, but yes.
He's in a place full of brimstone and exposed flesh.
Yes.
Reverend, we want you to come back.
Reverend, this is just the kind of tomfoolery that's been on the upswing since you left! Pure, unadulterated tomfoolery!
We've lost him.
None taken.
God doesn't need Twitter to reach people. He uses leprosy and plagues.
Neither! And I don't like it when other people rhyme!
I'd like to turn in this boy for thinkin' about doin' something naughty... and myself for waiting thirty seconds before bringing him here.
Can you teach my boys? But no tickling the ivories. You treat them with respect.
All right! A chance to make a new friend!
Hey, Simpsons! Don't mean to be a pesto, but I'll be happy to watch your scampy shrimp.
Tithe denied! Tithe denied!
Pray for a miracle, boy! God can hear you better from up there!
That's not a prayer!
Can I help you, stranger?
That sounds salty but you seem sweet. I'm gonna call you kettle corn!
I haven't felt this inspired since the blueberries at breakfast!
A brief one.
I said a fit, not a fervor!
Well... I'm down to a kiosk, thanks to that place.
Actually, half a kiosk. Sharing it with Nasreen here.
Children... perhaps it's time that I explain the true meaning of Christmas.
Okily-dokily.
We may be going to hell for seeing "side bosom," but this backyard is a little slice of Heaven, all thanks to Homer Simpson!
Does anyone remember when it was considered rude to talk in church?
Teen abstinence counseling! You get to pass out abstinence pledges and make sure the kids sign their John Han-bleeps.
Not this month! Edna signed us up for a tango class. It was the only way I could avert wine tasting.
Their skipping lessons are really payin' off!
I told you, the only dancing I like is "square."
Okay.
Sure do miss that laugh.
Well, look who's back.
That was my spatula!
Ah, too much aggravation! We just forego flipped food!
You'll only taste the spoon!
Should we do something?
I learned that left is called "port"!
The therapy bears! Look out for the therapy bears!
You're never bored paintin' the Lord.
Say no more.
Well, we pulled more plugs than a Dutch doctor. Now let's take a trip to the side of the house.
Why that's a higher power than even I believe in. What is going on?
Really, really, really?
Homer! This is my freezerino.
It's the name of the freezer!
Right next to Mount Fu-Gee, I'm glad to see ya!
Well, I felt a little guilty for taking back what belonged to me.
Never claimed to be.
Christmas is my busy season. Sold three pairs of scissors this month! Two came back.
Well, sir, our good Lord, and my boys are all I've really got. All Edna left me was wonderful memories and some ungraded papers, which I'm still working my way through.
Ah, just snowflakes on my mustache.
Sure... but your eyelashes are long and luxurious already. Are you just buying this to be nice?
Oh, Homer! Unto us this day, a neighbor is born! But why?
Well that curled my lashes, but good for you.
This is a whole new relationship for us! We'll be friends! In this life and the next!
My best friend is a great runner!
Am I hearing this right? Is the church council truly considering... gambling?
Why, I bet the Lord is pleased as punch that we're using that dirty casino money to rebuild his temple. Our mission is one hundred percent pure.
She's right. We thought we could enter the den of sin and emerge unscathed. But we were scathed! Those free ginger ales at the casino... I didn't declare them on my taxes!
See Marge, someone up in the sky did hear your prayers...
Just hold your horses, son. Hey, hey, Simpson.
Do you think this looks okay?
Ow. Oh, Simpson, it's you.
Oh, my, what a little mess we've got here! Well, which ones are yours and which ones are mine?
This one's mine. And this one's mine. This one's mine... and this--
Well, happy holidays, Simpson.
You bet.
How do you like my new wheels, Simpson?
Yes indeedilly-doodily.
Simple, Simpson. Credit.
Oooh, She's a beaut. Hey, congratulations, Simpson. I'm sure you'll have loads of fun.
Hey there, neighbor! The Lord's certainly given us a beautiful day today. Huh?
Doing a little yard work, huh?
Say Simpson, I-I've got some time-release granules that'll get rid of that crabgrass in just a half-a-jif.
Well, ooh, there... there... and uh there's a big patch over there.
Well, you may be right!
Couldn't help overhearing, Simpson. I've got some ice-cold suds in the rumpus room, if you'd like to join me.
Say, that's right. This is your first visit to the Flanders homestead.
There's my little Popcorn Ball. Kissy, kissy.
Ain't she wonderful, Simpson?
Oh, your beer. Uh, is draft okay? Just put in the tap last week.
Heh, heh. This is a tasty little lager that came all the way from Holland.
My pleasure, Study Buddy.
Oh, you know how that embarrasses me.
Ah, kids can be a trial sometimes.
Uh, knock what off, Simpson?
Simpson, I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to leave. I hope you understand.
I feel terrible.
Sometimes I forget that we have things a little better than the Simpsons. I drag him over here. He has a few beers. You can't blame him for erupting.
And then I turn into a snarling beast. Talk about flunking the old turn-the-other-cheek test!
Hello, Reverend Lovejoy.
Hey, there's Homer Simpson! Oh, what a perfect opportunity to follow up on my letter.
Reverend, I'm sorry to bother you at this hour but I threw a man out of my house today. I feel like I've violated Matthew 19:19.
Love thy neighbor.
A gentle answer. Well, that is a jim-dandy idea. Bless you, Reverend.
Dear Neighbor...
I don't blame you for being upset with me, Homer. I just wanted to give you this letter. I'll leave now.
Hi, Simpson! Having fun?
Ah, just playing a little mini-golf with the Todd-meister.
Say, now that we're all friends again, why don't we make a foursome?
All right! This will be fun! Oh, say, you looked like you were having a little trouble there.
Good shot, Toddsky!
So, my little Bartley, thinking of entering the tournament?
Hey, I like that confidence!... but I hope you're not putting too much pressure on the boy. My Todd's awfully good.
Hey, Simpson.
Well, sir, may the best man win.
Now, just a minute, Simpson. I think my son has a very good chance.
Yeah, well, I'm not a betting man.
Oh, I'm a chicken, am I?
All right, how's this for a wager? A batch of your wife's delicious blueberry muffins against one of my wife's homemade wind chimes!
No, I just --
You know, Simpson, you're starting to annoy me.
All right, and if Todd wins, you have to mow my lawn! And do a decent job of it, for a change!
You have yourself a bet, you jackaninny!
Eh, eh, just a minute. "Loser" is such a harsh word. Couldn't we just say "the boy who doesn't win"?
There you go.
Good gravy, what have I done?
Actually, Simpson, we were praying that no one gets hurt.
No, you will.
'Fraid so.
'Fraid so.
'Fraid so infinity plus one.
Mercy is for the weak, Todd.
It's okay, son. You can recover.
Well, Homer, our kids showed us something today, huh? By working together, we can both be winners. Thank heaven neither of us has to go through with that silly wager. Put 'er there, pal.
What are you talking about? Neither boy lost.
But... neither, I mean we're both... I mean, you have to do it too.
Y'know, Simpson, I feel kinda silly, but what the hay... you know, it kinda reminds me of my good ole' fraternity days.
Oh my, Lisa was wonderful. She certainly's come a long way with her fingering.
Shhh. It's coming up, son, it's coming up.
My son... my son.
Simpson, what a pleasant surprise. We were just pulling taffy.
No-sirree-Bob!
Okey-dokel. Hey, why don't you and your family come over for a barbecue tomorrow?
Oh, are you sure? We got that new propane beauty just sittin' in the back yard.
Oh, it's crying out to cook up some good eatin'.
Mmm Mm, sounds terriff!
That is the most dishonest thing I've ever heard.
I should box your ears you, you, you... You Sneaky Pete!
Hey, you easy. Now, get off my property! Off!
Ohhh. I wanted to subscribe to that new Arts and Crafts Channel. Well, sir, they send over this flimflam man to install it, and do you know what he did? He offered to hook me up illegally to every cable channel for only fifty bucks.
You know, that's exactly what I --
Well, howdaly-do, Simpson? Gettin' a little exercise, eh? Good for you, pal. Oh, look at this old rascal! He's a wet old baby boy, isn't he? Isn't he? You're just a water monster.
Mr. Universe, I wish!
Oh, you betcha! You know, they got velcro straps, a water pump in the tongue, built-in pedometer, reflective sidewalls and little vanity license plates.
Well, you know they're not givin' 'em away. But sometimes you've just got to spoil yourself.
Whoops, my heart rate's dropping. Better skedaddley-do.
