Must... turn... over. Got to... greet... dignitaries!
Absolutely not! No quack sawbones is going to apply his leeches to me! As long as there's an ounce of strength left in me, I...
Smithers, don't feel so bad. After all, that kidney you donated to me really hit the spot.
Smithers, I'm not going to make it. I want to dictate... my epitaph.
Charles... Montgomery... Burns.
American Patriot
... American Patriot.
Master Of The Atom.
Scourge Of The Despot.
"O Tyrant Hear His Mighty Name And QUAKE!!" Smithers, I'm back!
Oh, top o' the mornin' to ye! Why, look who's here! It's good old... you!
Oh, hey, there, Mr... Brown Shoes! How about that local sports team? Hm?
Heh-heh-heh! Well, that's game! Hasta manana, Osvaldo!
Smithers, I'm back in the pink! Full of pith and vinegar!
You know, it's funny, Smithers. I tried every tincture and poultice and tonic and patent medicine there is. And all I really needed was the blood of a young boy. By the way, what was the lad's name?
Who?
Well, the Simpsons will be getting a very nice surprise in the mail. Very nice, indeed.
I want the whole world to hear the story of my harrowing struggle with hypohemia.
Excellent.
Well, Countess Van Zeplin and I... What in blaze... Now you listen to me, you bargain basement Baudelaire. I'm not some dizzy starlet who can't string two words together. I can write this thing myself. You're fired.
"Chapter the Fifth... A Trip to the Infirmary, With Most Unexpected Results."
Can I help you?
Oh, don't be frightened of this. It's nothing but a letter opener. Who are you?
Hello, there's more. "In case you can't tell, I'm being sarcastic..."
"...you stink, you are a senile, buck-toothed..." "...old mummy... with bony girl arms and you smell like an elephant's butt!"
I could crush him like an ant, but it would be too easy. No, revenge is a dish best served cold. I'll bide my time until... Oh, what the hell. I'll just crush him like an ant.
"Senile," eh? "Buck-toothed," am I? "Bony arms," are they? "Liver spots," did I? "Chinless," will you?
Now, that's odd. I've just robbed a man of his livelihood, and yet I feel strangely empty. Tell you what, Smithers. Have him beaten to a pulp.
But what?
In closing, gentle reader, I'd like to thank you. What's that you say? Me thanking you? No, it's not a misprint. For you see, I enjoyed writing this book as much as you enjoyed reading it. The end.
Ah Smithers, how'd the beating go?
What? Well that's a hell of a thing! Why?
Judas!
I see.
No need, Smithers. As usual, you've been the sober "ying" to my raging "yang." Put 'er there, old pal.
We do indeed, old friend. We do indeed.
We'll get the Simpsons a present, an extravagant present! A mad, unthinkable, utterly impossible present! A frabulous, grabulous, zip-zoop-zabulous present!
Ooo, too practical.
Too cutesy-poo.
Too cornball.
A pool table? Are you mad? I'm not gonna turn his home into a saloon.
Eureka! We've found it!
Don't you dare sully this moment with your price taggery! It's perfect!
Heave-ho! Heave-ho! Heave-ho! Heave-ho! Heave-ho!
Why, what did you think I was going to do -- have you beaten to a bloody pulp?
To show there's no hard feelings, please take an advance copy of my book, "Will There Ever Be A Rainbow?" And now, young fellow, I haven't forgotten you. Here.
Actually, son, it's a big, ugly Olmec Indian head. It was carved by Meso-American Indians over 3,000 years ago. This gruesome customer is Xt'tapalatakettle, the god of war.
Well, I'll let you get acquainted with Señor Xt'tapalatakettle. Ta!
Did you see their faces, Smithers?
Wait a minute, go back. Zoom in. Why is that man in pink?
Simpson, eh? Well, judging by his outlandish attire, he's some sort of free-thinking anarchist.
Excellent. These color monitors have already paid for themselves.
Spare me the tired semantics of the Simpson family! Take him away!
Or perhaps you two are in cahoots. Smithers, I seem to recall you had a penchant for bell-bottom trousers back in '79.
Oh, yes, of course. Your spirited hornpipe stole the show, as I recall. Now Doctor, what shall we do about our free wheeling fop over here?
No.
Who is that bookworm, Smithers?
Simpson, eh? How very strange. His job description clearly specifies an illiterate.
Ah! Look, Smithers, another member of our nuclear family, with some helpful suggestions. And what's your name?
Simpson, eh? Hmm hmmm. I'm Monty Burns.
Hm. "Keep that handsome owner out of sight. He's distracting the female employees." Smithers...
Oh! It's a real one! "No more apples in the vending machine, please." Well, that's almost a sentence!
Oh, of course. And don't worry, there'll be plenty of apples for you. Nobody will take away your precious apples.
Now, now, now. Tell my secretary I said you could have a free apple. She'll make everything all right, I promise.
Damned infernal gizmo. My kingdom for a left-handed can opener!
Smithers, I'm licked. You open this can.
Hold it, Smithers! I'll open the can!
To the mall! I'll explain on the way!
The world has turned has it not my tin-plated friend? Look at you -- you, who were once so proud -- Feel the wrath of the left hand of Burns!
The boys at the Diners Club will think I've gone quite mad. Oh, and I'll have that roadster in the corner as well.
Huzzah for the shopkeep!
Thank God we live in a country so hysterical over crime that a ten-year-old child can be tried as an adult.
Ah, Monday morning. Time to pay for your two days of debauchery, you hung-over drones.
Yeah. so, what did you do this weekend, Smithers?
Who the devil is Hercules?
Well, Smithers, don't you know how to paint the town red.
Well, a bit overly familiar, but I'll allow it. I took in a movie. An appalling little piece of filth. Its leading lady was a blonde harlot who spent half the film strolling around naked as a jaybird.
Just give the great unwashed a pair of oversized breasts and a happy ending, and they'll 'oink' for more every time.
Call me old-fashioned, but movies were sexier when the actors kept their clothes on. Vilma Banky could do more for me with one raised eyebrow than an entire...
7-G? Good God, who's the safety inspector there?
Simpson, eh? Good man? Intelligent?
Thank you, President Ford.
Oh hello, Kent. Right now, skilled nuclear energy technicians are calmly correcting a minor, piffling malfunction.
But, I can assure you and the public that there is absolutely no danger whatsoever --
-- things couldn't be more ship-shape.
How the hell should I know?
Oh, meltdown is one of those annoying buzzwords. I prefer to call it an unrequested fission surplus.
Oh, hot dog. Thank you for making my last few moments on earth socially awkward.
Oh, Smithers, I guess there's nothing left but to kiss my sorry butt good-bye!
Yes, we've isolated the problem and wouldn't you know? False alarm. It seems a single wayward crow flew into our warning system.
Excellent. Well, "ta". Hmmm, Smithers, I can still sell 'em snake oil. Now bring me a wine spritzer -- and don't be stingy with the vino.
So, Smithers, it seems you've underestimated one Homer Simpson... our next Employee-of-the-Month.
Smithers, you bean counter, give it up! Simpson's my man!
Simpson -- Monty Burns. Come with me.
Now, now. That will do. Homer, for your bravery and skill, we award you this ham, this plaque, this discount coupon book, and my own personal thumbs up!
And to insure your immortality, your heroic visage will be added to our Wall of Fame... Oh, and uh, what's this? A congratulatory phone call from Earvin "Magic" Johnson.
Ah Simpson! There's someone I want you to meet. Aristotle Amadopolis, owner of the Shelbyville Nuclear Power facility.
It seems Ari's been having terrible worker problems at Shelbyville.
We want you to give them a pep talk that turns them from a bunch of donut-eating goof-offs into a pack of Homer Simpsons.
Oh cut the false modesty, it's getting tiresome. Besides, it's your duty. Employee of the Month isn't all ham and plaques.
Well! Smithers, how kind of you to pay us a visit.
Begone from my sight.
That one's always been a problem.
Look at them, Smithers. Goldbrickers, lay-abouts, slug-a-beds...
Little do they realize their days of suckling at my teat are numbered.
Very well.
Eeney, meany, miney... ugh, him.
Smithers, to the laboratory.
You know Smithers, I've always despised the laziness of the common worker. Then I realized his spirit was willing, but the flesh was weak. So I replaced the flesh -- which is weak -- with steel, which is strong. Behold, the greatest breakthrough in labor relations since the cat o' nine tails.
Keep your pants on, Smithers. First, we need... The human brain.
I don't know. I feel like a kid in a candy store.
Hello! An open grave. Smithers, get him out quickly, the stench is overpowering.
Oh, will you quit your complaining.
Well, who is a model ... employee?
No, I didn't. Who is it? Frankenstein? The Booger Man?
Oh... bad corpse. Bad corpse. Stop scaring Smithers. Satisfied?
Excellent.
Smithers, hand me that ice cream scoop.
Damn it, Smithers. This isn't rocket science, it's brain surgery.
Hel-lo. Look at me, I'm Davey Crockett.
Look, Smithers, a twitch... it's moving. It's alive! Oh, that fellow at Radio Shack said I was mad... well who's mad now?!
Hi there. I'm your dad-dy.
It wasn't suppose to be this way. It was supposed to be a thing of beauty, not this abomination.
Oh Smithers, I was wrong to play god. Life is precious, not a thing to be toyed with. Now, take out that brain and flush it down the toilet.
Oh, come on. It's 11:45.
Oh, Smithers, when you look at me with those puppy dog eyes... all right.
Oh you're right, Smithers. I guess I owe you a coke.
And as for you, you clinking, clattering, cacophony of colligenous cogs and camshafts, take that.
Ahhh!
Every bone... shattered... organs... leaking vital fluids. Slight headache... loss of appetite. Smithers, I'm going to die.
Well, perhaps. Smithers go to my office. In the third drawer of my desk are surgical tools and some ether...
Perhaps you're wondering why you have two heads? Well my body was crushed so I had my head grafted on to or shall we say ample frame.
Oh that's right. It's all a dream.
Or is it?
But Homer, tonight's our reception for Queen Beatrice of the Netherlands.
Hel-lo.
Simpson, eh? How can I help you?
It's a hobby. I'm not in this for any personal gain, heavens no. By the way, are you acquainted with our state's stringent usury laws?
Silly me, I must have just made up a word that doesn't exist. Now, what is the purpose of this loan?
Isn't that cute? Smithers, he's planning on joining the horsey set. That is it, isn't it? You're not planning to eat it?
Oh Smithers, let's not be so cold. His spirit is my collateral. Just sign this form and the money will be yours.
Sorry, I was just, uh, thinking of something funny Smithers did today.
Shut up.
Hot dog!
Isn't life grand?
A lovely promise, but one beyond the powers of a mere shampoo.
Maybe.
Snappy, do you it's hard to imagine, but I was once a barefoot boy with cheek of tan. I dreamed of grand slam homeruns and wiping out nations with the stroke of a pen.
Is there? Controlled nuclear fission is a demanding mistress, Snappy.
Yes, yes, exactly! You know, maybe it's time I sold the old girl.
Maybe a nap will boost my spirits.
You'll see the Statue of Liberty wearing lederhosen before you see Germans running my plant!
So I can look Uncle Fritz square in the monocle and say nein.
Whoo! oooh, oooh, Whooo hoo hoo!
I grudgingly accept.
Now, don't worry. I think you'll find that these two gentlemen are as American as apple pie! Hans and Fritz, well that's just John and Frank!
That's one big check.
Smithers! Come here, I want you.
I wanted to give you something to remember me by. I know you've always had your eye on this photo of Elvis and me.
Yes, but I couldn't understand a word that man said. Misht Burnsh, dajna boo mafrn friszner... er hound-dog.
Well, first I'll get that new hip I've been hankering for. Then, who knows? Bee keeping, boxing, bache ball?... The world is my oyster, Smithers. Farewell!
This is my park! Get out!
Listen, Smithers, you caught me at a bad time but my folk guitar class has been canceled for tonight. Would you like to get together for a drink?
Fine. I gotta go. See you at six.
You're going down, my friend.
That's right... gather the nectar, my little drones, and make the honey. Honey for your children.
Fools!
Just a second, Smithers. Let me introduce you to the gang. That's Buzz. That's Honey. And you see that queen over there? Her name is "Smithers."
Look! A blue-collar bar! Oh, Smithers, let's go slumming!
Ah, the mirthless laugh of the damned. Hold your nose, Smithers, we're going in!
Watch me blend in. Barkeep, some cheap domestic beer for me and my "buddy" here.
Smithers, who is this saucy fellow?
Yes.
Why, no.
No, it doesn't.
Good heavens, Smithers! They're not afraid of me anymore!
Letter? I don't recall any letter...
That was no accident. Let's get out of here.
What good is money if you can't inspire terror in your fellow man? I've got to get my plant back!
Please sell me my plant back! I'll pay anything.
Desperate, eh? Advantage, Burns.
This is my offer. I think you'll find it's most unfair, but those are the breaks.
That's my final offer, take it or leave it.
Ooh, the Germans are mad at me. I'm so scared. Ooh, the Germans.
Uh-oh, the Germans are comin' to get me. Oh, don't let the Germans come after me... Oh no, the Germans are coming after me. Oh, no, they're so big and strong...
Get out! This is my office now! Get out!
You too. This is a place of business, not a Peewee flop house!
Restore my office. Cancel all repairs. And rehire that chap who sassed me in the bar.
Smithers. I keep my friends close and my enemies even closer. He'll slowly regain his confidence as the months and years drift by, blissfully unaware that the sword of Damocles is dangling just above his head.
And then one day... when he least expects it --
That's it. That's it. Come closer...
Ironic, isn't it. The hunter has become the hunted. Oh God, Smithers, I feel so alive.
Yes.
Hold the phone, Smithers... I like your attitude. Feisty yet spineless.
I don't care. I haven't been this impressed since I first laid eyes on a young boot-lick named Waylon Smithers.
Welcome aboard, son.
Who was that young hellcat, Smithers?
Simpson, eh? I'll remember that name.
Did you hear that, Ari? My boys need only to thump your tub and the title is ours.
I disagree.
Oh, if we're going to bet, why don't we make it interesting?
Oh, did you say a million? I'm... I'm sorry, my mind was elsewhere. I thought you would start with a small amount, then we would bait each other and... well, you know how it goes. Yes... certainly, a million will be fine.
Um-hm.
Smithers, I've been thinking. Is it wrong to cheat in order to win a million dollar bet?
Let me rephrase that. Is it wrong if I cheat in order to win a million dollar bet?
No, Smithers. I've decided to bring in a few ringers. Professional baseballers.
We'll give them token jobs at the plant and have them play on our softball team. Honus Wagner, Cap Anson, Mordecai "Three Finger" Brown...
What is it, Smithers?
Damnation! All right, find me some good players. Living players! Scour the professional ranks. The American League. The National League. The Negro Leagues.
Oh, and Smithers... You have twenty-four hours.
And now I'd like to introduce the new members of our happy power plant family. Our new security guard... Roger Clemens...
our new janitor, Wade Boggs...
our new lunchroom cashier... Ken Griffey, Jr....
Our new, well uh, we'll make up jobs for these fellows later... Please say hello to Steve Sax, Don Mattingly, Darryl Strawberry, Ozzie Smith, Mike Scioscia, and Jose Canseco.
Oh, by the way, you new fellows, there's a sign up sheet for the company softball team on the bulletin board over there. Eh, just in case you wish to play.
Well... duh. You, Scioscia, sign up...
One more outburst like that and I'll send you back to the big leagues!
As your new manager, I want to say this up front. No one is assured a spot in the starting line-up. I don't care if your name is Steve Sax, Darryl Strawberry, or... Smithers, what's one of the bad players' names?
Or Homer Simpson.
Secondly, instead of beer, from now on you will all be drinking this!
It's a brain and nerve tonic. Rich in proteids and electromagnetic juices. It promotes robust health. Of course, it has been known to cause gigantism, but only in rare cases. Try some.
Excellent. Now, let's begin our training, shall we? Smithers -- the medicine balls.
Oh, I don't know. Throw it on the pile, I suppose.
Put a lid on it, Simpson. There's no "I" in "team".
They sure do, Strawberry.
Mattingly! Get rid of those sideburns!
You heard me, hippy.
Mattingly! Get rid of those sideburns.
You heard me, hippie.
Take a knee boys.
Tomorrow is the biggest day of your lives. The Shelbyville game. So lights out at seven-thirty and abstain from coffee, tea, and cola drinks. Make no mistake, they pack a wallop.
Yes. Now, before I post the starting line-up I want to assure those of you whose names are not on the list, that I'm very disappointed in you. Something was lacking, let's call it heart.
That's right, Darryl.
Smithers, there's no way I can lose this bet. Unless, of course, my nine all-stars fall victim to nine separate misfortunes and are unable to play tomorrow. But that will never happen. Three misfortunes, that's possible. Seven misfortunes, there's an outside chance. But nine misfortunes... I'd like to see that.
Mattingly, for the last time, get rid of those sideburns!
Don't argue with me! Just get rid of them.
Smithers, it's almost game time. Where the devil are my ringers?
What about Conseco?
What about Clemens?
That damn hypnotist!
You, look what you've done! My starting pitcher thinks he's a chicken! Make no mistake, I'm going to report this to the American Hypnotical Association.
Oh well, I guess it's not your fault... you did a good job.
Mattingly, I thought I told you to trim those sideburns. Go home! You're off the team! For good!
All right, you rag-tag bunch of misfits. You hate me, and I hate you even more. But without my beloved ringers, you're all I've got. So I want you to remember some inspiring things that someone else may have told you in the course of your lives, and go out there and win!
Not so fast, Simpson.
The man who plays your position is still here. Hit the pine.
All right, Monty, it's up to you managerial skills. What to do. Smithers, massage my brain.
You! Strawberry, hit a home run.
I told him to do that.
All right, tie game. Bottom of the ninth, two outs, bases loaded, Strawberry coming up...
Wait! You! Strawberry! Good effort today. Take a lap and hit the showers. I'm putting in a right-handed batter to hit for you.
Yes. You see, you're a left-hander. And so is the pitcher. If I send up a right-handed batter, it's called playing the percentages. It's what smart managers do to win ballgames.
You should be very proud of yourself. Sit down! Simpson! You're batting for Strawberry.
All right, Simpson, let's go over the signals.
If I tug the bill of my cap like so...
...it means the signal is a fake.
However, I can take that off by dusting my hands thusly.
If I want you to bunt, I will touch my belt buckle not once, not twice, but thrice...
Got that Simpson?
Oh, you're a manager's dream, Strawberry.
Smithers, it's almost game time. Where the devil are my ringers?
All hail king Homer!
Please, do go on...
Oh, please, continue...
What makes a man endanger his job, and yes, even his life, by asking me for money?
Nonsense! Dogs are idiots. Think about it, Smithers. If I came into your house and started sniffing at your crotch and slobbering all over your face, what would you say?
Exactly! You'd be fit to be tied! Dogs!
Yes, well, it does sound like fun. I can't wait to start pawing through my garbage like some starving raccoon.
Release the hounds. Well, neighbor I see you've got your running shoes on. That's a good thing.
What's wrong with Crippler?
Ah yes, I'll never forget the day he bagged his first hippie. That young man didn't think it was too "groovy."
I'm looking for something in an attack dog. One who likes the sweet gamy tang of human flesh.
Why here's the fellow! Wiry... fast... firm proud buttocks. Reminds me of me.
Now! As an attack dog, you'll be expected to neutralize intruders.
If that were a real Girl Scout I'd have been bothered by now.
Now here's a film that will turn you into a vicious souless killer. Enjoy.
Poke-A Poke-A Poke-A! Poke-A Poke-A Poke-A!
Excellent!
Release the hounds.
Who?
Ewww.
Hm. Oh yes.
Mother of pearl. Call my lawyers!
Before you begin, let me make one thing clear to you. I want your legal advice. I even pay for it. But to me you're all vipers. You live on personal injury. You live on divorces. You live on pain and misery...... but I'm rambling. Anybody want any coffee?
Want it black, don't you? Black like your heart! It's so hard for me to listen to you, I hate you all so much... I'm sorry. It's my problem. I'll deal with it. Please continue.
Oh, brilliant. A cash settlement. I could have figured that out, you button-down maggot.
Oh yes, of course. Where are my manners?
Is this the one with the lazy sperm?
Ah, Simpson, you big virile son-of-a- gun. How would you like a check for two-thousand dollars?
All you have to do is sign this form.
All right, well, it just explains that you've won -- yes, that's it -- won the first annual... uh... Montgomery Burns... uh... Award for... a-a-a Outstanding Achievement in...a-a th... th.. the field of... uh, Excellence!
Yess... that was Bonita De Wolf and the Springfield Nuclear Plant Soft Shoe Society.
And now to present the award, here's former heavyweight champion, Smokin' Joe Frazier.
Well, you'd be a welcome change of pace from the rest of these crude and uncouth sailors.
What do you think Smithers?
We know what you think. Young lady, you're hired.
He's either a fifty foot prehistoric ape, or a tourist trap concocted by the ape island jaycees. Either way, we're going ashore.
Of course. We wouldn't think of going without the bait... uh, that is, the bait-thing beauty -- The bathing beauty. I covered that up pretty well.
Just try to remain inconspicuous.
Uh, he's saying, "We wouldn't dream of sacrificing the blue-haired woman!"
Smithers, this is a golden opportunity. If we get him alive we can put him on Broadway. Dead, we'll sell monkey stew to the Army!
Now, we don't want to kill him, shoot him around the groin and belly.
All right, you big ape, get a snootful of this gas bomb.
I WAS STROLLING THROUGH THE GAS ONE DAY...
Nice work, Smithers. When we get back, I'm giving you a raise.
Oh well.
Well, the ape's going to stand around for three hours or so. Then we'll close with the ethnic comedy of Douggan an Dershowitz.
Ladies and gentlemen, in his native land he was a king. But he comes before you in chains, for your own amusement. Presenting Homer, the Eighth Wonder of the World!
I am dreading the reviews, I can tell you that.
No, but his career is. I remember when Al Jolson ran amok at the Winter Garden and climbed the Chrysler Building. After that, he couldn't get arrested in this town.
Tonight, we've all come to honor a close friend of ours...
A man who provided the Burns Corporation with forty-five years of faithful service, Mr. Jack Marley.
I'M MISTER BURNS!
I'm Mister Burns!
Burns!
Oh, me, me, me "I need all the attention just because it's my party, eh!"
Oh, yes you are.
With the departure of Mr. Marley, there will now be an entry-level position open in Sector 7G. Now get out. The bar is closed.
Jackanapes... lolligaggers... noodle heads... enchantress!
That woman -- she's so captivating. Smithers, my heart's pounding like a jackhammer.
I must have her. Smithers, zoom in. Closer... Closer... closer, damn it!
Too close.
Hello!
No need for alarm. I just came to give you the orchids and fragrant bath oils I lavish upon all my employees.
Oh, who cares. Marge, what can we do?
You mean like "Child labor Day"?
It's working! It's working! And the healthy snacks are on their way.
Marge, I'm giving you a raise and a new office... right next to mine.
Don't worry Smithers, I'm putting you where the action is.
I dreamed about her again last night, Smithers. You know that dream where you're in bed and they fly in through the window?
Yes, well, Smithers, I want you to arrange a party for two at my estate. Marge, me, and do you think you could dig up Al Jolson?
Oh, that's right, he's dead. And rather pungent. The rest of that night is something I'd like to forget. All right, then. Bring me that crooner she likes so much... Tom Jones.
Actually, I was wondering if you were free for a little get-together tonight. Dinner, dancing and ... Mr. Tom Jones.
You... have a husband? Yes, I can picture him now... rugged good looks... sweater knotted about his shoulders... curly locks shining in the sun like spun gold...
You're fired!
You don't have to sue me to get my pants off.
Why, Marge, look at all those flies buzzing around your head -- you're a mess, woman .
Yes, well, I have ten high-priced lawyers.
You love her, too.
Homer, I want you to show this woman the time of her life.
No, I've got something even more special in mind.
Look at that pig stuffing his face with donuts on my time. That's right, keep eating. Little do you know you're drawing ever closer to the poisoned donut. There is a poisoned one isn't there, Smithers?
Damn their oily hides.
Bring him to me!
Relax, Simpson. I just brought you in here for a friendly, "Hello."
... and, "Goodbye!" You're fired!
But wait, perhaps I'm being too hasty. You are highly skilled... at goofing off!
Now don't worry, Homer. You're the kind of guy I could really dig. A grave for. Your indolence is inefficacious!
That means you're terrible!
Oh dear. Send a ham to his widow.
Oh good. Cancel the ham.
No, all those bald children are arousing suspicion -- to the park!
That's ridiculous, the last tree held nine drums.
Smithers, my wallet's in my right front pocket.
Oh, and uh, I'll take that statue of Justice too.
Hello. My name is Mr. Snrub, and I come from... eh, someplace far away. Yes, that will do. Anyway, I-I say we invest that money back in the nuclear plant.
Eh.
Smithers, where's that union representative? He's twenty minutes late.
Well let's look at the contract ourselves. Benefits... perks... a green cookie on St. Patrick's Day? Oh, it didn't used to be this way, Smithers. No, it didn't used to be this way at all...
If only we had listened to that boy, instead of walling him up in the abandoned coke oven. Well, I'm going to avenge my grandfather. We'll take on that greedy union and get back our...
Dental Plan.
Who is that firebrand, Smithers?
Simpson, eh?... New man?
Doesn't ring a bell.
Hmm, he's a worthy foe. Look at him, Smithers. Exercising away while the others are off at the candy machine.
We don't have to be adversaries, Homer. We both want a fair union contract.
And, if you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours.
I mean, if I should slip something into your pocket, what's the harm?
After all, negotiations make strange bedfellows.
Ah, Homer! I hope Crusher and Low Blow didn't hurt you.
Oh yes, but the telephone is so impersonal. I prefer the hands-on touch you only get with hired goons.
This is the largest TV in the free world.
This is a thousand monkeys working at a thousand typewriters. Soon they'll have written the greatest novel known to man.
Let's see. "It was the best of times. It was the blurst of times?" You stupid monkey!
Ohh, shut up.
And this is my basement.
Yes, I really should stop ending the tour with it.
Now, let's get down to business.
Now, Homer, I know what you're thinking and I want to take the pressure off.
It doesn't take a whiz to see that you're looking out for number one. Well, listen to me and you'll make a big splash very soon.
Oh. It's the twenty-third door on the left.
Ah, he wouldn't even hear me out.
Find the bathroom alright?
Well, you've won this round Simpson, but I'll grind you into the earth like a bug!
Simpson, be a dear and rub my legs till the feeling comes back.
A bug, I tell you! A bug!
Smithers, get me some strike breakers like the kind they had in the 30's.
Full power, Smithers.
Oooo, look at him strutting around like he's cock of the walk. Well, let me tell you, Homer Simpson is cock of nothing. Why you and I can run this plant ourselves.
Yes, thank you, Kent. Fifteen minutes from now I will wreak a terrible vengeance on this city. No one will be spared. No one!
Oh for God's sake.
Goodbye, Springfield. From hell's heart I stab at thee!
Look at them all, through the darkness I'm bringing. They're not sad at all, they're actually singing! They sing without juicers! They sing without blenders! They sing without flunjers, capdabblers and smendlers! Tell Simpson I'm ready to deal
All right! You can even have the dental plan!... On one condition. You must resign as head of the union.
Smithers, I'm beginning to think that Homer Simpson was not the brilliant tactician I thought he was.
This man is costing my health plan five thousand dollars a day. I demand that he die with dignity.
Well, I demand a second opinion.
Hi, Dr. Nick!
Yoink.
You have no idea, woman, what that man's put me through.
Please, do go on...
Oh, please, continue...
Smithers, this plague doesn't scare me. I've constructed a germ-free chamber for myself. Not a single microbe can get in or out.
Who the devil are you?
Look Smithers! Garbo is coming!
Huh? What? How dare you disturb me during nap time!
There must be some mistake. We, uh, we make cookies here. Mr. Burns' old fashioned, good time, extra chewy...
The watchdog of public safety. Is there any lower form of life?
Yes, he's in Geneva, chairing a conference on Nuclear Fission. Yes, that should stick.
I like to put my feet up.
Oh, very well, it's time for your bribe. Now you can either have the washer and dryer where the lovely Smithers is standing...
Or you can trade it all in for what's in this box.
Is that so? Well I have the feeling you'll be "dropping" the charges...
Oh, yes.
Hello, Simpson. My lawyers and I were in the neighborhood and thought we'd stop by.
Remember, your job and the future of your family hinges on your successful completion of Nuclear Physics 101.
Oh, and one more thing. You must find the jade monkey before the next full moon.
And the road maps and ice scraper?
Excellent. It's all falling into place.
Don't worry, Simpson, it just so happens I have a chair at Springfield University...
I see. Well, you know, fellas, I look at the admissions board a lot like a baseball team. You all like baseball, don't you?
Yes, well, to have a successful baseball club, you need teamwork. Not some hot dog admissions officer playing by his own rules.
I'm giving you the beating of your life!
Smithers, dismember the corpse and send his widow a corsage.
Do as I say!
I want my teddy!
Bobo! Bo-Bo! Oh, it's you. The bedpan's under my pillow.
Bobo? I meant Lobo. Sheriff Lobo. They never should have canceled that show.
I won't get what I really want
Happy Birthday, Mr. Smithers.
Where is that dreaded piñata?
That man who's getting all those laughs, Smithers. Who is he?
I want this Simpson fellow to perform comedy at my party. I must harness his fractured take on modern life.
Bobo!
Ahh, these minstrels will soothe my jangled nerves.
Have the Rolling Stones killed.
This stinks... piffle... dust buster? Eych.
Eh, no time. Next!
What!
How dare you!
Destroy him.
This party is over.
Yes, yes, yes. So what?
Liar! I'll give you the thrashing of a lifetime! Resistance is futile. Oh God, how I only want my bear. But he's gone. Gone forever. I'd give anything to know what happened to him.
Enough. Stop this grotesque charade. Now find my Teddy.
Oh, and uh... leave the costume.
Get this bear off...
Bobo! My beautiful Bobo! I promise I'll never leave you behind again.
Ah, yes. Naturally I can't pay you much of a reward because... I'm strapped for cash.
As you can see, this old place is falling apart. But I'm sure we can come to an understanding.
May I offer you a drink?
Don't worry, Smithers, he's playing hard ball now. But it won't take him long to crack.
How much do you want?
Done. Now, give me that bear.
Give me the bear!
You've made a mistake, Simpson.
Excellent shot, Smithers. I'll be squeezing my Bobo in no time.
Remember, Smithers. In and out in eighteen seconds.
Yes.
Good day to you.
Give me my bear, Simpson.
Give it to me.
As you can see, Simpson, I've taken over all seventy-eight channels. And you won't see any of your favorite shows again until you give in.
What's that you say? You can live without television as long as you have beer?
Wrong. All beer trucks heading towards Springfield have been diverted. This town will be as dry as a bone. And if the rest of you beer swilling tube jockeys out there have a problem with this, talk to Homer Simpson.
Smithers, I'm home!
Yes.
Simpson, look what you've reduced me to.
So, good sand today, hm.
Well, I don't usually... well, just this once.
Ugh.
Damn you, paparazzo!
Well, Maggie, I've given this a lot of thought. I'm sure we can come to some sort of agreement.
Beaten by an infant. What could be more humiliating?
Okay, Maggie, you win. But I want you to do something for me. Hang on to that bear. Don't make the same mistake I made.
For me? Bobo? Smithers, I'm so happy. Something amazing has happened. I'm actually happy. Take a note. From now on, I'm only going to be good and kind to everyone.
Eh, don't worry, I'm sure I'll remember it.
Ah, Bobo reunited at last. But I can't help but wonder what the future holds for you. Ah, yes. Wonder...
Bobo I know I say this every century, but I'll never leave you behind again.
Hmm... Who's that goat-legged fellow? I like the cut of his jib.
Oh, I'm very excited about this deal... Oh...
Precious blood.
Welcome, come in. Ah, fresh victims for my ever-growing army of the undead.
Oh, son of a bi...
Well if it isn't my good friends, the uh...
Simpson, eh? Excellent!
I heard that!
Well, if it isn't little... boy.
Why Bart is right here.
You're fired!
Far too much dancing, not nearly enough prancing.
Ooh sounds delish. Let me just toss some jeans on and... Wait a minute! Who is this?!
I'm too nice!
I feel like such a free spirit. And I'm really enjoying this so-called "iced cream."
Why that's a fabulous idea. Anything else you'd like? How about real lead in the radiation shields? Urinal cakes maybe? Smithers, throw this at him.
Smithers, where does that tube go?
Yes, well, find someone cheap. It's been a very lean year for us.
Excellent, Zutroy. Work hard and each day you'll get a shiny penny.
That's preposterous. Zutroy here is as American as apple pie.
That plane crashed on my property!
All right, I'll bring in a woman. But I still stand by my hiring policies.
Get back to work, Stuart!
Look at those two inseparable chums, Smithers. That's exactly the teamwork we'd like to showcase at this year's Energy Convention.
Well no one else seems to share the same spirit of camaraderie.
Well we'll just see about that.
Fly my pretties! Fly!
Continue the research.
Thank you so much for visiting our plant, Dr. Kissinger.
Hey, tough times, eh? I've lived through twelve recessions, eight panics, and five years of McKinley-nomics. I'll survive this!
Oh! Very well -- lay off... Him, him, him, him...
Hmm, better keep the egghead. He just might come in handy.
By building a casino, I could tighten my stranglehold on this dismal town!
Oh, I'll never forget my carefree boyhood days on this old boardwalk...
What was I laughing at, now? Oh yes, that crippled Irishman.
Get out!
Get out!
Now!
We're building a casino.
Idiots. I'll design it myself. I know what people like. It's got to have sex appeal, and a catchy name.
Well, I've discovered the perfect business. People swarm in, empty their pockets, and scuttle off. Nothing can stop me now. Except microscopic germs. But we won't let that happen. Will we Smithers?
They're all covered with filthy germs, aren't they, Smithers?!
Ewww!
Smithers, I've designed a new plane. I call it the Spruce Moose, and it will carry two hundred passengers from New York's Idlewild Airport to the Belgian Congo in seventeen minutes.
Model?
Very well, begin the thawing of Jim Nabors.
Smithers! I don't want that unpredictable lunatic working in my casino!
Oh, my beloved plant... How I miss her.
Bah! To hell with this! Get my razor! Draw a bath! And get these Kleenex boxes off my feet!
Oh, we'll hang on to those. Now, to the plant! We'll take the Spruce Moose. Hop in.
I said, hop in.
Excellent.
Hello, Smithers. You're quite good at turning me on.
Compadres, it is imperative that we crush the freedom fighters before the start of the rainy season. And remember, a shiny new donkey for whoever brings me the head of Colonel Montoya.
Huh? What? And by that I mean, of course, it's time for the Worker of the Week Award. I can't believe we've overlooked this week's winner for so very very long. We simply could not function without his tireless efforts. So, a round of applause for... this inanimate carbon rod.
Men, there's a little crippled boy sitting in the hospital who wants you to win this game. I know because I crippled him myself to inspire you.
Eeeeeee!!
Smithers, this reminds me of that fat man I used to ride to work.
Will five o'clock never come?
Careful, Smithers, that sponge has corners you know.
Help, Smithers! I'm sinking! I'm sinking! Life... flashing... before...eyes.
It was I, you fools! The man you trusted isn't Wavy Gravy at all!
And all this time I've been smoking harmless tobacco.
You almost killed me!
Smithers, do you realize, if I had died there would be no one to carry on my legacy? Due to my hectic schedule and lethargic sperm, I never fathered an heir. Now I have no one to leave my enormous fortune to. No one.
You, Smithers? Oh no, my dear friend, I've planned a far greater reward for you. When I pass on, you shall be buried alive with me.
Hello, I am Montgomery Burns.
Now then, I'm looking for a suitable young, male heir to leave my fortune to when I pass away. My vast, vast, vast fortune. Vast.
Auditions will be tomorrow at my estate. And now, our feature presentation.
Oh for... Oh, very well.
LET'S ALL GO TO THE LOBBY, LET'S ALL GO TO THE LOBBY, LET'S ALL GO TO THE LOBBY, GET OURSELVES SOME SNACKS....
I specifically said "No geeks!"
Next.
Oh, I like his energy. Put him on the call back list.
Thank you. Give the bully an extra point.
I don't know what "phallocentric" means, but no girls.
Oh, he's the worst yet! That's it! Everyone out! Except you! One step to the left.
Excellent.
It's no use. I guess I'll have to leave all my money to the Egg Advisory Council. Eggs have gotten quite a bad rap lately, you know, Smithers.
Ooh look, a bird has become petrified and lost its sense of direction.
Well, we'll see what the lab has to say about that.
Why that rapscallion is breaking all my windows.
Look Smithers, a creature of pure malevolence. He's the perfect one to suckle at my proverbial teat.
You there, boy! What day is this?
I was talking to him. You, what day is this?
I'll tell you what day it is. Today is the day you become my heir!
Ooh, I like him a lot.
Just sign here and your son will stand to inherit my entire estate.
Well, I --
Now that you've all agreed to reap the windfall of my death, I must return to my large empty mansion to rattle around and await the inevitable... alone.
Bart, I know you children see me as some sort of "booger man," but I'm really not such a bad "dude." Oh, your milk's gone cold. I'll ring for the maid.
Sorry. Wrong button.
Aw, if you stay you can have anything you want to eat, even some sort of gelatin dish. It's made from hooves, you know.
This is my pride and joy. I've had hidden cameras planted in every home in Springfield. I got the idea from that movie "Sliver." What a delightful romp!
Smithers, my plan worked perfectly. Bart Simpson will live here as my son, and I will mold him in my own graven image. Who knows, I may even grow to love him. Bartholomew!
Ugh! Smithers get it off me.
I suggest you leave immediately.
Bartholomew, you don't need him. I can be your schoolyard chum!
Five, twenty-three skidoo! Hut! Hut!
Oh, pish posh. There's a jaws of life in the trunk.
That was delightful! Did you see that? That mouse butchered that cat like a hog! Is all TV this wonderful?
Like a hog! Heh? What? What was that?
I was hoping I wouldn't have to tell you this, but... I'm afraid your family doesn't want you back.
Really? Excuse me for just a moment.
People, that was all wrong. Homer Simpson doesn't say "B'oh!" he says... "D'oh!"
Yes, well, just get it right or you'll all be back doing "Come Blow your Horn" at the Westport Dinner Theater!
All right then, let's see what the old Simpson family is up to now.
That rib always breaks.
Yes, that's to correct your posture. Soon you'll have a mighty hump.
Now, you really are my son. This calls for a celebration. Let's fire some employees.
Okay, let's make this sporting, Leonard. If you can tell me why I shouldn't fire you, without using the letter "E," you can keep your job.
You're fired.
You will.
Huh! What a coincidence. And a perfect opportunity for you to prove your loyalty. Go ahead Bartholomew. You may fire when ready.
Hurry! Fire him now or I'll disown you. You'll lose everything. The fabulous toys, a lifetime of wealth and luxury, the gift certificate from Blockbuster Video, the freedom to do whatever you want.
What? Fire me? That does it, you can never be my son...
Huh? Oh, very well. You can never be my...
Guess what happened to me last night!
Say, sport, mind if I have the next dance?
No need for the blown gasket, Charlie! I'll have her back in one piece.
Who told y-- ?! Yesss. Well, I'd say you were an angel, but angels don't dance like that.
Smithers...
She said "no" to me. Do you know how many women have said "no" to me? One hundred thirty. But only one since I've become a billionaire. And she's the one for me. I'm in love!
Yes, whoop-de-doo! Whoop-de-doo to the world!
Whooop de-doo, Mr. Florist! Whoop de-doo, Mr. Physical Trainer! Whoop-de-doo, Mr. President!
Whoop-de-doo, Tarantula Town!
Whoop-de-doo, employees! Everyone who's found true love may leave early today!
"Memorandum to: Mrs. Bouvier. Re: Delineation of Romantic Intentions..." Pfffft, too sappy. Smithers, come over here and help me write a mash note to my girlfriend!
That's marvelous. How did you think of that so fast?
Hello! Why it's... it's uh... oh it's...
Why it's Fred Flintstone and his lovely wife, Wilma! Oh, and this must be little Pebbles! Mind if I come in? I brought chocolates.
Run along, Pee-Wee. Baby gets nothing.
You don't have the guts.
Aaagh! Here, take your money! Take it!
Now, the tables have turned, haven't they?
Bravissimo, Luigi. Bring us your finest bottle of vino.
Now, my dear, if you look in your champagne, I think you'll find a little surprise...
Not to worry. I believe there's another one around here, somewhere.
My darling, since my kneecaps are filling with fluid as we speak, I'll be brief. Will you marry me?
We've heard enough about Blizblaz and Himham already! Get to the bloody point!
I do.
The ring, you little imbecile! Before I really lose my temper!
I specifically requested no romantic music!
Smithers!
Smithers!
Well we'll just see about that.
Fly my pretties! Fly!
Continue the research.
Say, sport, mind if I have the next dance?
No need for the blown gasket, Charlie! I'll have her back in one piece.
I specifically requested no romantic music! What!
Hail, brothers! Quoronon cillairia ozu mahoq!
Now, then. Gentlemen, the mayoral campaign is upon us and if we hope to defeat this Joe Quimby we need a candidate with name recognition and media savvy. A true leader who will do exactly as he's told.
Oh goody, the Sea Monkeys I ordered have arrived. Look at them cavort and caper.
Yes, they work hard and they play hard.
This house has quite a long and colorful history. It was built on an ancient Indian burial ground, and was the setting of satanic rituals, witch burnings, and five John Denver Christmas Specials.
Hmm, that's odd. Usually the blood gets off at the second floor.
Yes, by cutting off cable TV and the beer supply, I can ensure an honest winter's work out of those low-lifes.
Hmm, perhaps. Tell you what. We come back and everyone's slaughtered, I owe you a coke.
Thank you, sir, may I have another?
Patience, Monty. Climb the ladder.
Oh I'll give you higher, my filthy little urchin.
You've won this round, but...
Is that so?
I should be resisting this, but I'm paralyzed with rage... and island rhythms.
So, come crawling back, eh?
I'm afraid it's not that simple. As punishment for your desertion, it's company policy to give you the plague.
Ah yes, the special demotivational plaque, to break what's left of your spirit. Because, you see, you're here forever.
"Don't forget, you're here forever."
I don't know what's happening. It seems our profits have dropped thirty-seven percent.
I ought to club them and eat their bones!
You left out pleasant!
But I like that film biography idea. A slick Hollywood picture to gloss over my evil rise to power, like "Bugsy," or "Working Girl." Get me Steven Spielberg!
Then get me his non-union Mexican equivalent.
Listen, Señor Spielbergo. I want you to do for me what Spielberg did for Oskar Schindler.
Excellent.
Next.
Next.
Next.
Oh, it's hopeless. I'll have to play myself.
Simple villagers, I promise you I will close plants in America and bring work here.
Whoa-oa-oa!
We did twenty takes and that was the best one.
Remember, Elliot, I'll be right here.
I don't care what they say. I'm going to win this festival.
Drink up, Judah Ben Hur.
Excellent.
Smithers, are they booing me?
Are you saying "boo" or "Boourns?"
Excellent. Bribing those two judges has paid off. Just as it did during the Miss Teen America pageant.
I've got to win this one. I've bribed everyone in Hollywood.
Smithers, take me home. I'm not fully defrosted.
I can't feel anything below my cummerbund.
...and I know the little fellas would love romping around my many acres, chasing my many cars, drinking from my many toilets...
Hmm? Oh, of course not. They're your pets, you can do as you wish. Good day, everyone.
There you go. There you go. You too...
Going somewhere?
There you are, there ya go li'l' fella, and you...
Smithers, look! He's standing up! I've never seen anything so adorable. You know who it reminds me of...
No.
No, no, no. A person, you know who I mean.
No, no. The person who's always standing and walking.
That's it! You stay with me. You're the pick of the litter.
: Yes... But not completely full, for you see... / "SOME MEN HUNT FOR SPORT, /OTHERS HUNT FOR FOOD / THE ONLY THING I'M HUNTING FOR / IS AN OUTFIT THAT LOOKS GOOD..."
/ SEE MY VEST, SEE MY VEST / MADE FROM REAL GORILLA CHEST / FEEL THIS SWEATER, THERE'S NO BETTER / THAN AUTHENTIC IRISH SETTER... / SEE THIS HAT, T'WAS MY CAT / MY EVENING WEAR, A VAMPIRE BAT / THESE WHITE SLIPPERS ARE ALBINO / AFRICAN ENDANGERED RHINO... / GRIZZLY BEAR UNDERWEAR / TURTLES NECKS, I'VE GOT MY SHARE / BERET OF POODLE ON MY NOODLE, / IT SHALL REST... / TRY MY RED ROBIN SUIT / IT COMES ONE BREAST OR TWO... / SEE MY VEST, SEE MY VEST, SEE MY VEST / / LIKE... MY... LOAFERS? / FORMER... GOPHERS... / IT WAS THAT OR / SKIN MY CHAUFFEURS
BUT A GREYHOUND FUR TUXEDO / WOULD BE BEST / SO LET'S PREPARE THESE DOGS...
SEE MY VEST... / SEE MY VEST... / OH, PLEASE, WON'T YOU SEE MY VEESSSST!
I really like the vest.
Come on, Smithers. Let's go finish the little flea circuses off. Except for "Little Monty," of course.
Oh well, there'll be plenty of time for explanations later. Right now, I'll be taking my puppies back.
Here's a phone. Call somebody who cares.
Give me that! Now if you'll excuse us, children, the pups have a date with a fashion knife.
Nice try. C'mon, Little Monty, stand up!
Come on, stand up! Do your trick.
Excellent.
Now it's simply a matter of bending down and picking up the one and only...
I'll have to kill them all.
But they're so wretchedly adorable! Twenty-five little Rory Calhouns. I can't do it!
But I can kill you!
No, I can't kill you either. Look at you standing there on your hind legs like a couple of Rory Calhouns.
Oh, I have. I have! I swear I'll never wear any clothing made from an animal that can do an amusing trick!
Now drive, Smithers, drive!
Now, before we adjourn, gentlemen, I have one last matter of utmost importance. I need to send this parcel with the profit projections to Pete Porter in Pasadena - And it absolutely, positively has to be there overnight!
My name is the return address, you senseless dunderpate! Smithers, who is this nincompoop?
Sounded large when I ordered it. I can't make hide nor hair of these metric booby-traps.
Bah! A non-profit organization with oil? I won't allow it! An oil well doesn't belong in the hands of Betsy Bleedingheart and Maynard G. Muskie-vote!
No. Let's do another twenty miles.
Hello, Lenny, Carl, Guillermo...
Hello... Eh... do..er... uh... Oooh...umm...
Ahoy there, Dean! I understand you're taking suggestions from students, eh? Well, me and my Fourth Form chums think it would be quite "corking" if you'd sign over your oil well to the local energy concern!
Bheh!
I want that oil well! I've got a monopoly to maintain! I own the Electric Company and the Waterworks, plus the hotel on Baltic Avenue.
I see. Then I'll just have to... AT-TTACK YOU!
I must have that oil! Oogh! Smithers! Smithers, help me subdue this beast!
That's it. Frimble about with your widgets and doobobs. It'll all be a monument to futility when my plan comes to fruition.
Pish-posh. It will be like taking candy from a baby.
Say, that sounds like a larf. Let's try it right now.
Oh, very well.
Hmm, yes. I believe that's little Maggie Simpson -- the baby who found my precious teddy-bear Bobo. Oh and there's that, ah Simpson mutt, my former guard dog.
Ooh uh, uh, that's B-Bart Simpson. He was my heir for a brief period, you know.
Anything left?
Dispose of it. And uh, send a thank-you note to Marge, Bart, Lisa, and Maggie Simpson.
Ah. Soon that mighty apparatus will burst forth with its precious fluid. Almost sexual, isn't it, Smithers?
Huzzah!
No, not while my greatest nemesis still provides our customers with free light, heat, and energy. I call this enemy... the sun!
Since the beginning of time man has yearned to destroy the sun. I will do the next best thing -- block it out.
Imagine it, Smithers. Electrical lights and heaters running all day long.
I will not suffer your insubordination! There has been a shocking decline in the quality and quantity of your toadying, Waylon, and you will fall into line. Now.
I'll do no such thing! You're fired!
Take that, bowl-a-rama! Take that, convenience mart! Take that, nuclear power pla-- Oh, fiddlesticks.
Who the devil are you?!
What? What are you talking about? Clearly make sense, man. I can't understand a word you're saying. You're just babbling incoherently like some sort of...
Oh, those wheels are squeaking a bit. Perhaps I could sell him a little oil.
Nuh-uh-uh.
Won't... dignify that... with response.
I've decided to protect myself... Ever since I was attacked in my office by an unidentified assailant.
Oh, you all talk big, but who here has the guts to stop me?
Mmm hmm. Very well. One last question: Have you ever seen the sun set at 3:00 PM?
Shut up, you! Take one last look at the sun, Springfield.
Ahhh. Perpetual twilight bathed in the glow of Burns brand electricity!
Hello lamp post/ Whatcha knowin'? / I've come to watch your power flowing.
After all these years, things are finally starting to go my way. I feel like celebrating. I...
Oh, it's you. What are you so happy about? I see. Well, I think you'd better drop it. I said drop it! Get your -- get your hands off--
Smithers, wait your turn. There's plenty of hot water for all.
That's right. The year is 1965, and you and I are undercover detectives on the hot-rod circuit. Now let's burn rubber, baby!
Pish-posh. It will be like taking candy from a baby.
Say, that sounds like a larf.
Who the devil are you?
Homer Simpson!
Homer Simpson?
Homer Simpson.
Ho-mer Simp... son. Ho... mersimp... son.
Mersimp... Son... what is the... mer... meaning of this? Smithers, who is this beast that's shaking me?
Shot? By you? I'm afraid not my primitive friend. Your kind has neither the cranial capacity nor the opposable digits to operate a firearm. The one who shot me was...
Ma.. Maggie Simpson!
With the sun blocker in place and the town aghast, I was on top of the world...
So I wanted to kick up my heels and indulge my sweet tooth.
I feel like celebrating.
Oh, it's you. What are you so happy about?
I see.
Yes... that's the one. Smithers had thwarted my attempt to take candy from a baby, but with him out of the picture, I was free to wallow in my own crapulance.
I think you'd better drop it!
But the old exhume was misleading. Taking the candy proved exceedingly difficult.
I said drop it!
Stricken I lurched forth in search of aide.
But finding only slacked jawed gawkers, I gave up and collapsed on the sundial.
What? No! With my last ounce of strength I sucked out my gold fillings and swallowed them. Those paramedics have sticky fingers.
I' afraid that's insufficient. Officer, arrest the baby.
You know, Smithers, I think I'll donate a million dollars to the local orphanage... when pigs fly!
No, I'd still prefer not.
One, two, three, four! Up, down, three, four...
Raise your right hock. Aerate! Raise your left hock. Aerate! I want to see more Teddy Roosevelts and less Franklin Roosevelts!
Yes?
May I help you?
Okay.
I am pleased to dedicate this remote work terminal. It will allow our safety inspector here to perform his duties from home. And so, excelsior to you, Mr. What's the name of this gastropod?
... Yes, Simpson.
Push out the jive... Bring in the love...
Workers, please! There'll be time for the frozen pudding wagon later! You still owe me ten more Iroquois twists!
Ten hi-ya-ya! And nine hi-ya-ya..!
Homer, your bravery and quick thinking have turned a potential Chernobyl into a mere Three-Mile Island. Bravo!
We'll have you out of there as soon as our tech boys get you decontaminated.
Now Homer, if there's anything else I can do for you, please don't hesitate to ask.
I guarantee it.
One... One... One...
Bah! I'll just pay for the blasted liposuction.
Here's your caption, boys: "Local Hero shuns spotlight and pitches in!"
Let's have less conversation and more sanitation.
Smithers, who was that corpse?
Their flower power is no match for my glower power.
My germs! My precious germs! They never harmed a soul! They never even had a chance! Whoever did this will never get past me!
You just made a very big mistake. You'll spend the rest of your life in pris--
Yes, I'd like to send this letter to the Prussian consulate in Siam by aero-mail. Am I too late for the 4:30 auto-gyro?
Ach. The ignorance.
Wait a minute, I know that woman. But from when and in what capacity?
It's her! At last!
Keep looking.
Absolutely. Who could forget such a monstrous visage?
She has the sloping brow and cranial bumpage of the career criminal.
Of course you'd say that...
You have the brain-pan of a stagecoach tilter.
Well, that "nice lady" set the cause of biological warfare back thirty years.
Look, we know you bought the tombstone. We know the fugitive visited that tombstone. Whose tombstone was it?!
I've been waiting twenty-five years for this moment.
I won't get what I really want
Happy Birthday, Mr. Smithers.
Nonsense! Dogs are idiots. Think about it, Smithers. If I came into your house and started sniffing at your crotch and slobbering all over your face, what would you say?
Hello, Smithers. You're quite good at turning me on.
I dreamed about her again last night, Smithers. You know that dream where you're in bed and they fly in through the window?
I suggest you leave immediately.
My worst, eh? Smithers, release the robotic Richard Simmons.
Smithers, it's out of control.
The one who shot me was...
Waylon Smithers!
With the sun blocker in place and the town aghast, I was on top of the world...
So I wanted to kick up my heels and indulge my sweet tooth.
I feel like celebrating.
Oh, it's you. What are you so happy about?
I see.
Smithers had thwarted my attempt to take candy from a baby, but with him out of the picture, I was free to wallow in my own crapulance.
Or so I thought. At the last moment, Smithers, drunk as a lemur, lurched out of the darkness and fired.
Stricken I lurched forth in search of aide.
But finding only slack-jawed gawkers, I gave up and collapsed on the sundial.
Not exactly. Smithers, for attempting to kill me, I'm giving you a five percent pay cut.
Excellent.
Oooo... I need some more ether. I can still feel the movement of the emery board.
Leave the rag.
Pop 'n Fresh! You glutinous little doughboy! Oh, there's something I've wanted to do to you for years.
Oh, why, certainly, Pop 'n Fresh. I... I owe my robust physique to your tubes of triple-bleached goo.
Woo hoo!
Why, it's that delightful TV leprechaun! I'm going to get your lucky charms.
Stop everything! I don't remember writing a check for bowling!
Oh, yes. That's very important.
Yes, that was unpleasant for all concerned. Anyway, back to the checks... Stop everything! I don't remember writing a check for bowling!
Oh, yes. That greedy, grasping, glob of chemicals.
Simpson, eh? Let's shut down this bowling scam right now.
Look at them, Smithers, enjoying their embezzlement.
Listen here... I want to join your team.
I've had one of my unpredictable changes of heart. Seeing these fine young athletes reveling in the humiliation of a vanquished foe... I haven't felt this energized since my last... boweling.
Look at that. All the way to the end with only one push.
Well, we certainly got walloped tonight, eh fellas?
Ah, yes. That silly championship? The only "ship" worth a damn is friendship. Look, here comes the friend ship, sailing your way...
Oooh, here, let me get that, friend.
Oops, lost a nail. Well, that's leprosy for you.
Smithers, I'm afraid I won't be able to play tonight. My old gimpy knee has gone akimbo again, and...
Smithers! That precision assault popped it back into place! Thank you masked stranger!
So, who's ready to kick some Christian keister?
Oh, I almost forgot. I brought you all a little something.
I've always been wealthy , but this is the first time I ever felt rich.
Now, Homer, you were about to say something to me...
What?
You guys!
Nice one, Homer.
Next time, a few steps more toward center, don't you think?
You mean I won.
Oh. I'm afraid I've had one of my trademark changes of heart. You see, teamwork will only take you so far, then the truly evolved person makes that extra grab for personal glory. Now, I must discard my teammates, much like the boxer must shed roll after roll of sweaty, useless, disgusting flab before he can win the title. Ta!
You there -- fill it up with petroleum distillate and re-vulcanize my tyres! Post haste!
Hmmm. Who is that lavatory linksman, Smithers?
Well, he's certainly got a loose waggle. Perhaps I've finally found a golfer worthy of a match with Monty Burns, eh?
Oh, he just looked so forlorn, Smithers, with his "Oh, I can't go to prison, Monty! They'll eat me alive!"
Say, I wonder if this Homer Nixon is any relation?
Bah. Schedule a game and I'll ask him myself.
Rant on, Simpson, but your vainglorious boasting will only add savor to my inevitable triumph.
Yes. You're in deep "D'oh" now.
Oh, quit cogitating, Steinmetz, and use an open-faced club! The sand wedge!
You're four strokes behind, Simpson.
Cripes, man, can't you ever get to the green in less than two shots?
Smithers, what are you doing up here?
Cheating for me? Good lord, Smithers, that's patently unnecessary. I'm one of the world's finest golfers! In all the years you've caddied for me, I've never lost a-- Oh.
But does your wife?
Where's Homer? Oh, and to think I spent all afternoon baking him this cake.
I pickled the figs myself.
Go! Go!
Slow down!
Excellent.
Welcome employees! "Come in!" "The whole night's entertainment is on me" -- "Monty Burns!"
Smithers, this beer isn't working. I don't feel any younger or "funkier."
Ah, at last! Smithers, fetch the bi-oculars.
Damnation! Tell them to go slower!
Oh, this novelty foam hand is ludicrously oversized. Go swap it for a smaller one.
Smithers! What's happening?!
Smithers! Help!
Smithers!
You should've seen the murderous glint in his eye, Smithers. And his breath reeked of beer and pretzeld bread.
Oh, don't concern yourself. If things had turned ugly I always had my mace.
I appreciate the thought, but my pen won't write on this. How am I supposed to do the "Junior Jumble?"
Pull yourself together, man! I dare say you're in need of a long vacation.
That's a risk I'm willing to take.
Tchah! I'm not a baby who needs a nursemaid to burp me. You see? Now I insist you take a vacation just as soon as a temporary substitute can be found.
Dough-nuts?! I told you I don't like ethnic food!
Here. Tell me how my stocks did yesterday.
Really, Smithers, I'll be fine! I'm sure your replacement will be able to handle everything. Who is he, anyway?
Simpson, eh?
Good lord, Smithers! You look atrocious. I thought I told you to take a vacation.
Ah, yes, Simpson. I'll have my lunch now. A single pillow of shredded wheat, some steamed toast, and a dodo egg.
Get going! And answer those phones, install a computer system, and rotate my office so the window faces the hills.
Eh? What about my options?
I believe I'll get up.
Scrub harder. Got to get that layer of dead skin off.
I think the fangs today.
Simpson? Simpson?
Did you get that report on the accounting department?
Is it about my cube?
Everything's fine, Smithers. But this Simpson fellow seems to be getting dumber by the minute. I've never seen anything quite like it... Anyhoo, you just enjoy your vacation.
Simpson!
The telephone has been ringing for some time. Answer it.
Nothing other than drive me to distraction with his incompetent boobery. Terrible at everything. A complete moron. But I'm not really free to talk right now.
Look, stop calling me and start enjoying your vacation. Remember, I want to see lots of pictures when you get back.
60 watts! What do you think this is -- a tanning salon?
I asked for light starch on my nightcap!
You call this Postum?!
You call this a tax return?!
You call this a super computer?!
You're a travesty of a truke of an assistant.
No, please! I can't bear another thrashing. Just leave me be.
Must call Smithers. He'll protect me from this beast.
I've seen people activate this machine a thousand times. Doesn't seem to be any trick to it... Let's see... Smithers... "S-M-I-T-H-E-R-S". Success! It's ringing!
I'm looking for a Mr. Smithers. First name, Waylon.
Oh, Smithers, if only you could hear me.
Praise God, I think the thug has finally gone home for the day.
Now I can make my escape...
Uh... no! I'm... uh... making it myself!
Hear that? The percolations are imminent! No need to come in! Cease your ingress!
Stay back, Homer! Approach no further. Coffee's already made. I stomped the beans myself.
No... I thought... I thought, uh, I'd chauffeur myself this evening! Yes, that's what I thought. How difficult can it be? I'm sure the manual will indicate which lever is the velocitator and which the deceleratrix.
I can't believe it! All my life I've avoided doing things for myself, but I'm actually enjoying this. Plus I'm making incredible time.
Beep beep! Out of my way, I'm a motorist!
Already taken care of.
Cappuccino, Simpson?
Ahoy-hoy? No, you have the wrong number. This is 5-2-4-6. I suspect you need more practice working your telephone machine. Not at all. Ahoy.
No, Homer. You've already done more for me than any man. Your brutal attack forced me to fend for myself. I realize now that being waited on hand and foot is okay for your average Joe, but it's not for me. I want to thank you.
Thank you, thank you, thank you!
Ah, welcome back, Smithers. Say, do you know Homer Simpson? He pitched in around the office while you were away. Bang up job, Simpson, but I guess it's back to your trusty post in sector 7-G.
Ah, and my dear, dear Smithers... you're no longer needed at all. You're fired. Ta!
No problemo.
Ahoy-hoy? Hoy?
Gah! Oh, hello, Mater. Uh... Sorry about pulling the plug on you and all. Who could've known you'd pull through and... live for another five decades? Oh, is my face red...
So!
Impersonate my mother, will you? And you, Smithers! You must have put him up to it! I'm glad I fired you.
Stop that! Stop that at once! You're fighting!
Stop it! Stop it, I say!
I don't need you to do any of this. I'm totally self-sufficient now. What I would like, though, is a Spanish peanut.
Skin.
It's a remarkable thing. In the short time you were gone, I learned to be completely self reli--
-- ant. Oh, and as for that brutish fellow who knocked me out the window... see that he gets what's coming to him.
Smithers, what is the meaning of this slacking off?
And?
But we're running out of forward momentum.
Quite impossible. I can try to bat him off if you like.
Holy cats, man, we're starting to wobble!
Oh, Tuttle's Sunday trousers! Fear not, I'll get you to a hospital, the only way I know how. Smithers, you infernal ninny! Stick your left hoof on that flange now!
Now if you can get it through your bug-addled brain, jam that second mephitic clod-hopper of yours on the right doo-dad! Now pump those scrawny chicken legs, you stuporous funker!
One more jostle, you wretched shirkaday!
Would you do the honors...?
Well, Simpson, seven gone. As soon as you're in your pressboard coffin, I'll be the sole survivor, and the treasure will be mine!
That's exactly the poi-- Oh, Simpson, can't you go five seconds without humiliating yourself?
Your clownish behavior notwithstanding, we have made a gentleman's agreement and sworn on our lives to honor it.
Smithers, I want that man killed.
Let's see... "Mesmerists," "Dowsers," "Luddites," "Alienists," "Zoroastrians," "Alphabetizers,"... Aha! "Assassins!"
Well, I can't risk it. I won't allow that Simpson boy to take the Hellfish Bonanza, and I can't get it without his key!
Ah, just the man I need. Fernando Vidal, the world's most devious assassin.
Fernando, it's "M.B."
This is Montgomery Burns.
I'm sending you a photo over the Faxtrola. I need you to fly to Springfield and assassinate this man post-haste.
Haven't you won the war yet?
"Dead -- tired," but I'm quite refreshed now, thank you.
Little help?
Leave them for whom? The Germans? The folks who shoot at us all day? Let's just take them. We'll all be rich! Rich as Nazis!
Then it's agreed. Of course, we can't sell the paintings now. We'd be caught. How many of you are familiar with the concept of a "tontine?"
All right, Ox. Why don't you take us through it?
Well put, Oxford. Now remember, you can't all sign with an X...
I've tried to meet you halfway on this, Simpson, but you had to be Little Johnny Live-a-lot. Now give me your key to the Hellfish Bonanza.
Oh, you're a good boy. But the child labor people have been watching me like a hawk.
Well, I'm off to get the paintings. As they say, time is Monets. As you were, Sergeant.
Oh, terribly sorry. Back to sleep,
little girl.
I'll thank you to stop pinching my Botticelli.
Looks like I didn't need the keys after all. I'll take the masterpieces, thank you.
Oh, am I?
Hmm. I'd rather do both.
So long, Sarge. See you at the reunion in November.
Act your age, Simpson! You look foolish!
Agh! Don't kill me!
Yes, sir! Is this to your liking?
And to think, Smithers -- you laughed when I bought Ticketmaster. "Nobody's going to pay a 100% service charge."
Ta-ta.
Honestly, Smithers, I don't know why Harvard even bothers to show up. Heh. They barely even won.
Well, I say let Harvard have its football and academics. Yale will always be first in gentlemanly club-life. Why, every friend I have I made right here.
Steady... steady...
This may take a while, Smithers. Why don't you get drunk and stumble around comically for my amusement?
Smithers, what's going on? How dare you interrupt my lime rickey? State your business.
You're what? Selling light bulbs? Worried about the whales? Keen on Jesus? Out with it!
It's true. He is my son.
Ah, Larry, my lad, I've gone over this story in my mind a million times. It was 1941 -- the -- no, '39 -- my 25th Yale reunion...
Who should appear but the unrequited love of my college years, Mimsy Bancroft...Of course, by then Mimsy had her share of wrinkles and a gray hair or two, but my adoring eyes saw past those minor imperfections to her 21-year-old daughter, Lily.
I took Lily to the local cinematorium...
...where our passions were inflamed by Clark Gable's reckless use of the word "damn."
We sneaked into the nearby Peabody Museum. There under the smiling eyes of four stuffed Eskimos, we expressed our love physically, as was the style at the time.
Oh, there was a terrible scandal. Lily's family forced her to give you up and bundled her off to a convent in the South Seas. I never heard from her again. But I prattle on -- tell me everything about your life.
Well. You must be tired. Let me show you your room.
Yes... All right... Uh-huh... It's good to see you, too... Now then, in case you get bored, here's the playroom.
This show was supposed to close last week! Close this show! Close it, I say!
I see. Well, I... Oh, you know, I just remembered it's time for my annual donation. I wonder how much I should give...
Nonsense, Larry, your blood is bluer than any of theirs! Just give them a snootful of the old Burns charm!
Ooh, Admiral Carstairs, I'd like you to meet my son, Larry.
Larry, please, he's very sensitive about his age.
Smithers, there's something a bit odd about young Larry. I can't quite put my finger on it.
A total lack of refinement. Smithers, send for the boys at Yale Admissions, huh?
Well, did you meet Larry?
How were his test scores?
Are you mad? I'm not made of airports! Get out!
Summon my son at once!
Quiet, you! Nobody likes a comedian!
Oh, "yakkety-yak-yak"... You, Foodbag -- do you have a son?
And is he a constant disappointment? Does he bring home nitwits and make you talk to them?
Fascinating. Goodnight.
I'll tell you what's with me -- the humiliation of having a coarse, boorish, ignoramus for a son!
Your son has been kidnapped...
I can't believe someone would kidnap my Larry. I won't rest until he's returned to me!
It's the principle, Smithers! Nobody steals from Montgomery Burns, whether it be my Sunday newspaper or my loutish oaf of a son.
Ahoy-hoy?
Yes! I'm missing one son! Return it immediately!
Oh, how much proof do you need? Five thousand? Six thousand? I swear, that's all I've got.
More important than money? Who is this?
The negotiations have failed! Shoot him!
There, there, sonny-boy. I suppose I have been a bit... Oh, no, I can't do it. It's just not me.
I'm sorry, Larry, I can't be the family that you need.
Well, son, delighted to have met you. It's good to know that there's another kidney out there for me.
I don't like being outdoors, Smithers.
For one thing, there are too many fat children.
Smithers?!
Ahoy-hoy?
Hmm. One dollar for eternal happiness... Mmmm, I'd be happier with the dollar.
So, another Friday is upon us. What'll you be doing, Smithers? Something gay, no doubt.
You know, lighthearted. Fancy free. "Mothers lock up your daughters, Smithers is on the town!"
Hello children! I bring you love!
La la la la la...
Uh, I'll field that question. A lifetime of working in a nuclear power plant has given me a healthy green glow and left me as impotent as a Nevada boxing commissioner. And now that I'm back to normal, I don't bring you peace and love. I bring you fear, famine, pestilence, and...
GOOD MORNING STAR SHINE / THE EARTH SAYS HELLO.
Come on, come on, while we're young.
No, the promise of a new day is more than enough exhilaration for me.
Smithers, coffee...
Ah! We need some excitement around here!
No, no, something fun. Something the men will enjoy like a safety drill! But what kind?
Eh, meltdown alert? Mad dog drill? Blimp attack? Ah, I think a good old fashioned fire drill today.
Is it supposed to take this long? What's a good time for a mass evacuation of the entire plant?
And what's our time so far?
Damnation! What kind of slowcoaches do I have working for me? Ah, here comes one of our fellows now.
Yes, you won all right. You won more than you bargained for.
What a disgraceful display. I've seen more orderly behavior in a Ritz Brothers film. You all need a serious lesson in teamwork.
All right. Let me start off by telling you this will not be a walk in the park. This will be the most arduous and backbreaking weekend of your life. I cannot overemphasize the dangers which... did you bring your family, Simpson?
Imbecile. Simpson, your family will have to remain here.
Now as an added incentive, the second to last team to arrive at the cabin will receive an hilarious "World's Worst Employee" trophy.
And the last team to arrive will be fired.
And to show that I'm not playing favorites, both Smithers and I will be participating. Who knows? I might be the unlucky one who gets fired. Not bloody likely.
Woooo-hoooo! / Huzzah!
Yes, well, frankly, you've been a bit of a pill lately.
Prepare for the adventure of a lifetime as you fight for survival against the merciless forces of nature! Toe your marks, get set, go!
Ready, Mr. Burns?
One moment.
Why, thank you, Simpson. I have been watching my figure.
Tell me, Simpson, if an opportunity arose for taking a small shortcut, you wouldn't be averse to taking it would you?
Neither would I. I've always felt that there's far too much hysteria these days about so-called "cheating".
Mmm-hmm. If you can take advantage of a situation in some way, it's your duty as an American to do it. Why should the race always be to the swift or the Jumble to the quick-witted? Should they be allowed to win merely because of the gifts God gave them? Well, I say, cheating is the gift Man gives himself.
Excellent.
And to do so, I propose we travel by...
Horseless sleigh.
Yes, well, I'm older than you. You know, Simpson, you're not as objectionable as you seemed when we first met.
We made it, old friend!
We have several hours before the others arrive. What say we get comfy?
Now we have electricity. This propane tank will supply us with heat, and this doorknob, properly turned, will allow us access to the cabin.
Well, I don't suppose the others will mind us starting the party early, Homie old boy. More champagne?
Oh, yes, but I'd trade it all for a little more.
Oh, yes, sitting. The great leveler. From the mightiest Pharaoh to the lowliest peasant, who doesn't enjoy a good sit?
Yes, yes! That's it! Oh, I could go for one of those right now!
The only hard part is getting up.
Why, you'd have to get up.
Sir, I am in your debt.
Hope that wasn't an avalanche. Be a chum and have a look-see.
Isn't there any way out of here?
There must be some way to contact the outside world. Ah, the telegraph.
S-O-S. Avalanche... Send... Help...
Simpson, I have a confession. I'm not quite the tunnel digger I made myself out to be.
All right, good. Let's dig... That's right, dig some more... Oh, we make quite a duo: Burns and associate. No, no, what am I thinking? Burns and... teammate.
What happened?
We... should... be... careful... not... to... speak... unless... it's... absolutely... positively... necessary.
Let's go.
Those last three avalanches were your fault, Simpson.
Sew buttons.
We must be covered by a thousand feet of snow.
Hmmm... no books, no radio, no board games. Ah! A Bazooka Joe comic.
Ech! I heard that one 75 years ago.
No, I have a better idea! We could build real men. Out of snow.
Ah. 206 bones... fifty miles of small intestine... full, pouting lips. Why, this fellow is less a snowman than a god.
Well, we've managed to stave off cabin fever for a few hours.
I... I think we should dress the snowmen.
Look at them. Smug and secure in their finery. Mocking us.
Ah, snowmen have peepers. Peepers to watch. To watch for our moment of weakness and then baff! comes the knock on the head and we're down.
Oh, wouldn't you like to know.
I'll kill you, you bloated museum of treachery.
Homer!
We'll be dashed to pieces.
Have you people forgotten our little competition? Last one in the cabin is fired.
You're fired, Lenny.
So how did we do?
Outstanding. Well, perhaps all of this has been worthwhile. Did you all learn about teamwork?
Excellent. In that case, no one will be fired after all.
Well, Simpson, I must say, once you've been through something like that with a person, you never want to see that person again.
Bah humbug.
Balderdash. This is the silliest load of... Ooh, look at it fly. Whee! Look at me, Smithers, I feel practically superduperfragicaliexpiala-dohhhh!
Hm. What's this strange sensation in my chest?
Ooh. That takes me back. God bless you Shary Bobbins.
Why that canine has the proud bearing and glossy fur coat of a Yale man. Hello, little fella.
Smithers, I believe this dog was in Skull and Bones.
I'll keep it short and sweet. Family, religion, friendship: these are the three demons you must slay if you wish to succeed in business. When opportunity knocks, you don't want to be driving to the maternity hospital or sitting in some phony baloney church. Or synagogue. Questions?
Are there any real questions?
Ree-cyyy-cling?
I'm afraid I'm not familiar with that term, you adorable little ragamuffin.
Oh, so Mother Nature needs a favor? Well, maybe she should have thought of that when she was besetting us with droughts and floods and poison monkeys. Nature started the fight for survival and now she wants to quit because she's losing? Well, I say "hard cheese!"
Well surely you agree we can do without her.
No?
I, um... have to go.
I've called you all here because I need some honest answers. What is my current financial situation?
All right. Well, let's have a look at my stock portfolio.
Hmm... Confederated Slave Holdings. How is that doing?
Well, let's get out the old stock ticker and have a look...
Eh, here's where I stopped checking it last time: September nineteen twenty ni-- Oh, no! Oh, no! Oh, no! Smithers, why didn't you tell me about this market crash?!
Oh, that's your excuse for everything. I've got to do something to get my money back quickly. This calls for an aggressive trading strategy.
Take fifty percent of my money and put it in the blue chips: Trans-Atlantic Zeppelin, Amalgamated Spats, Congreve's Inflammable Powders, U.S. Hay... and sink the rest into that up-and-coming Baltimore Opera Hat Company. That should set things right again, eh, boys?
Are you saying my money's all gone?!
But... I made all the right moves! Didn't I?
I see it all now! You're just a bunch of yesmen! I was making the wrong moves and you were too gutless to tell me. Isn't that right?
Then I'll fix this myself. Smithers, take out another mortgage on the plant.
But... what will I do?
Uh, would it be all right if I kept this portrait? To remind me of better times?
Why indeed...
Excellent.
Are there any chores I can do?
Ah, here's a chance to earn my keep. I will go out and get these items from the food jobber.
Grocery store, please!
I am riding on a bus.
Oh my, no! I'm Monty Burns!
I'm shopping.
Oh my... I wonder which is the cereal for me...
Uh, oh, excuse me, can you tell me where I might find the "Burns-O's"?
Hmm. Well, I suppose this one looks a bit like me...
Oh, thank you, Shoppie. I... I ventured in to search for milk when the door snapped shut behind me.
Ketchup, catsup... ketchup, catsup... ketchup, catsup... Ugh. I'm in way over my head.
Are you here to solve my ketchup problem?
Wh... where are you taking me? What's happening?
But I'm shopping!
Egad, man, how are we supposed to pass the time?
So this is how the Monty Burns saga ends... If I hadn't surrounded myself with those spineless yes men...
That voice! That shrill, disagreeable voice! It's her!
You! The troublemaking girl!
It doesn't matter what your name is, you idiot! What I want to know is: will you help me get my money back?
Yes! That's the kind of moxie I'm looking for. You're hired!
Not now, Smithers. I've got an empire to rebuild, and the person who's going to help me is... that girl!
Please!
Please!
Please!
Sir, we've never met before, but my name is Mr. Burns and I want your daughter to help make me rich again.
Ah, the baby who shot me. No, I was referring to your other daughter.
I've realized the error of my ways, Lisa. I need someone with your integrity to help me. Please don't refuse this poor old man.
Nothing evil. That's exactly the kind of radical thinking I need! It's a deal.
You mean there are actually people who will pay good money for garbage?
Oh, don't pooh-pooh a nickel, Lisa. A nickel will buy you a steak and kidney pie, a cup of coffee, a slice of cheesecake, and a newsreel! With enough change leftover to ride the trolley from Battery Park to the Polo Grounds.
I see...
My first dollar! Thanks to you, Lisa, and our hemp-smoking friend. Shine on, you crazy diamond.
Well, Lisa, as my advisor, you're entitled to ten percent.
There's a can.
Excellent. I'm on my way back to the top. I've turned these cans into "can do!"
Oh, you've really turned my life around these past few weeks, Lisa. I've got my own business again, my beloved employees... oh consargnit. Eh, come on, let's pick up the pace, you neglected old nincompoops!
Oh, capital idea, partner. People, if we meet this week's quota, I'll take you to the most duck-filled pond you ever sat by.
Yes, thank you, everyone. But -- 10% of your applause should go to my little partner, Lisa Simpson. For if it were not for her infectious moralizing, we would not be here today to witness the unveiling of... The Li'l Lisa Recycling Plant!
Would you like to be the first to take a tour of the plant, Li'l Lisa?
The whole plant is a environmentally-sound. It's powered by old newspapers. The machinery is made entirely of used cans. And the windows are from the old liquor bottles we collected.
I thought I told you to stop licking my windows!
Oh, hold your accolades to the end of the tour. You haven't seen the best part!
I couldn't watch your demonstration of the fish caught in the plastic rings without getting an idea. Look out over the water.
I figured if one six-pack holder will catch one fish, a million sewn together will catch a million fish. Watch.
I call it the Burns Omni-Net. It sweeps the sea clean.
I call our product: Li'l Lisa's Patented Animal Slurry! It's a high-protein feed for farm animals, insulation for low-income housing, a powerful explosive, and a top-notch engine coolant. And best of all, it's made from 100% recycled animals!
Oh, a spoonful of slurry will cure what ails ya!
I don't understand. Pigs need food, engines need coolant, dynamiters need dynamite. I'm supplying it to them, at a tidy profit, and not a single sea creature was wasted. You inspired it all, Li'l Lisa.
Enough chit-chat. I need to see Lisa.
Oh, I think you will. You see, I've just sold the Li'l Lisa Recycling Plant for 120 million dollars!
Oh, don't congratulate me, congratulate Bay State Fish Sticks... as my advisor, you're entitled to ten percent of the proceeds.
That's the kind of man I need on my team, Smithers. A real scrapper. A self-made man like me. Bring this Grimes fellow to me. I want to make him my executive vice president.
Smithers, I've just seen the most heroic dog on television. He pulled a toddler from the path of a speeding car, then pushed a criminal in front of it. Find this dog. I want to make him my executive vice president.
What? Oh, yes. That fellow. Well, just put him somewhere out of the way and find that dog.
Who did this to my wall?
Is this true?
Come with me.
How dare you destroy my valuable wall and spill my priceless acid?! Did you really think you were going to get away with it?
Silence! I'm going to give you one more chance -- at a reduced salary. So straighten up and fly right!
...and the bold, new ideas these tiny tykes unveil for us today could make thousands of jobs like yours obsolete!
Hot tub? Media room? It's supposed to be a power plant, not Aunt Beulah's Bordello. Thank you. Get out. Next.
Too cold and sterile. Where's the heart?
You lose! Get off my property!
Let's have the next child.
Could you explain your model, young man?
Agreed. First prize.
Ahoy-hoy-hoy?
Oh, fiddle-faddle. Everyone knows our mutants have flippers. Oops. I've said too much. Smithers, use the amnesia ray.
Precisely. And be sure to wipe your own memory clear when you're finished.
Yes, yes, of course.
Does anyone have change for a button?
Smithers, why haven't I heard of this "The Leader?" He's as rich and wicked as I, but he seems to enjoy tax exempt status.
You're right. We're getting screwed! There must be something I can do about this. Wait! Yes! I think I know just the thing!
Oh, yes, of course, the plan! You see me as a God, right Smithers?
You'd kneel before me.
Yes -- Uh, then I'll form my own religion!
With its own symbol. We'll use this "Special K!"
And people worship it?
All right, then. Uh, how about this?
Ahoy hoy, lowly mortals! In addition to working for me, you may now praise me as your Almighty!
Smithers, there's a rocket in my pocket.
The electric chair is on, eh? Then the old prison has been getting free electricity for thirty years. I'll put a stop to that.
You did this? How could you be so irresponsible?
Since I've never seen you before, maybe it is your first day. Very well, carry on.
Oh, really? Why did you think you could lie to me?
Well, why didn't you say- Whoa! You're fired!
Well, I won't go without a fight, wink, wink. Heh. Let me show you around.
Oh, stop fishing for compliments, Smithers. Go home to your can of mushroom soup.
I'm choking it down. Isn't that thanks enough?
Now what, Smithers? I... You're not Smithers.
Employee, eh? What a pleasant surprise.
Hmm... A pack of vicious dogs should be ripping you to pieces...
Very well, come on in. Perhaps I have something I can scald you with.
It'll, uh, be a few minutes. So, what brings you to my home?
Ya! Ha!
Hmm. Well, let me get you a towel.
What is this? What are you doing?
Oh, I get it. I'm on to you.
You're from Collier's magazine, aren't you? Are you going to put me in Star Snoop?
I hope you don't mind a little walking.
Well, of course, I didn't want a racehorse in my living room, but you don't say no to Spring Byington, do you?
Heh, heh, heh. Heh, heh. Ohh, you'll find this amusing -- the suit Charlie Chaplin was buried in.
Here's a scoop for your readers: the Hall of Patriots.
That intrepid lad is my great grandfather! Franklin Jefferson Burns. Tossing that tea without a care for what the caffeine would do to the Fenway Flounder.
It was.
Oh-ho, that's me all right, standing up against America's reckless, spendthrift politicians. It commemorates my liberation of a trillion dollars that would have been foolishly squandered.
Well, that would be pretty careless of me, wouldn't it? I keep the real bill right here.
What the...?!
I'm not the thief, the government is. Every year you make hard-working Joes like my reporter friend here pay income taxes, and for what? Aid to ungrateful foreigners, do-nothing nuclear missiles, tomb polish for some unknown soldier...
You crooks in Washington have...
Ohh, you can silence me, but you can't silence Collier's magazine! Tell the people! Don't let the government push you around! You have a choice! Fight back!
Faster, Simpson! Those jack-booted G-men won't be far behind.
No. We need help. And there's only one man who can get us out of a jam like this.
...So now, our own government is hunting us down like a couple of common snow leopards.
Capital idea! Let's blow this fascist popsicle stand. We'll purchase a small island somewhere and start our own country, free from the relentless tyranny of Uncle Sam.
Contact!
Remove the chocks, Simpson. Simpson?
There's soda on the plane!
Any of these islands would make a fine new country.
Vice President!
Ooo, there's a big one. And it has freedom written all over it.
Cuba, eh? Take her down, Smithers.
Excellent.
Sorry about the landing, boys. This fog is so thick I can't see my own cataracts.
Ahhh, the new Packard we've been hearing so much about.
So, you say Batista's gone? Did you know that?
Well in that case, just take us to whoever's in charge.
Oh, so the island's not for sale, eh? Well, will you at least permit us to live in your socialist paradise?
Exactly. All we ask is preferential treatment because of my fabulous wealth.
Oh-ho-ho. See with your eyes, not with your hands.
Now give it back.
Yes, I, too, feel renewed appreciation for the good old U.S. of A. Oppression and harassment are a small price to pay to live in the land of the free.
Well, if it's a crime to love one's country, then I'm guilty. And if it's a crime to steal a trillion dollars from our government and hand it over to communist Cuba, then I'm guilty of that, too. And if it's a crime to bribe a jury, then so help me, I'll soon be guilty of that!
Smithers, do you think maybe my power plant killed those ducks?
Excellent.
Wankers...
Ah, there's nothing like a good old-fashioned picnic. How's my kite doing, Smithers?
We'll see about that. After him, Smithers!
Get back to work!
Shouldn't you be at work right now?
Well then, get back to wherever it is you work, whoever you are.
Look, Skinner, we haven't got all day. Kill the horrid beasts, then do away with their lizards.
Yes, yes, you're in the way! Are you daft, woman?
There he is, off in the distance!
Next...
Ahhh, lunchtime!
Well, let's see what I've packed for myself today. One bouillon cube, one concord grape, one Philly cheesesteak, and a jar of garlic pickles. No one will want to kiss me after these, eh, Smithers?
Yes...
No, those people are all gristle. I want this jar open.
Worthless old geezers.
Oh, for goodness sake. What we need around here is some fresh blood.
No, no. To attract top graduates, we'll need to make a recruitment film. A picture that showcases our cutting edge technology.
Yes, brilliant! That's just the kind of far-out gimmick we need.
Annnnd. Action!
Nuclear power.
You dunder-headed stooges are the worst bunch of--!
I'm just thinking of my employees -- all the card sharps, bottom dealers, and shills. Where will they go?
Excellent.
Ah! Max Power! How's every little thing?
Well, who could forget the name of a magnetic individual like you? Keep up the good work, Max.
Yes, of course. Mr. Power.
Mm, I think I'll take... Ooh, that one.
No, he's a bit listless, isn't he? Give me... Ooh, that spirited fellow...
Oof. Well, he didn't put up much of a fight. Uh, why don't you pick one for me?
On second thought, I'll just have a glass of milk. From that cow.
Smithers, I think I'm in love!
With this sculpture!
Smithers, years ago, I blew the chance to buy Picasso's "Guernica" for a song. Luckily, that song was "White Christmas," and by hanging onto it, I made billions.
Anyway, I love this hideous thing. Young lady, I'll take it!
Yes, love that sun, man!
Now Smithers, you say you painted all your Navy buddies this way?
Step lively, Smithers. That orphanage won't demolish itself!
Deploy the cow catcher.
Oh, tarnation! I've got to see what the excitement's about. Make way! Doctor coming through.
Excuse me.
So sorry.
Pardon me, good sir.
That's a good lad.
Books and cocoa in the same store? What's next? A talking banana?
Hm?
No, of course not. The very notion of a talking banana is absurd! Still.
Ohhh, please. All this fuss for little ol' me?
Whaaa?!!
That man's totally insane!
Not so fast, old chum.
That flamboyant fop! He's got them eating out of his hand.
Oh, bosh. Anyone can lead a conga line. Hop to it, Smithers. Con-ga, con-ga, con-ga!
We love Monty Burns more. / Con-ga like you mean it. / Please don't make me shock you...
The man has no idea how to behave like a billionaire. Where's the dignity? Where's the contempt for the common man?
Bah!
I thought I had everything. Money, good looks, strong sharp teeth... But what's it all worth when nobody likes you?
Are you still here?
Mm... Simpson!
I need your help. I want to be loved.
I want you to look at me the way I saw you look at Arthur Fortune.
Yes! That's the look I'm looking for. What would make you and your slovenly kind look at me that way?
Yes, exactly. That's the kind of pointer I need.
Tell me more, fatty.
Ah-ha! This is a great idea, Simpson. Free silver dollars! Compliments of C. Montgomery Burns!
I can't believe it. I'm still not among the hundred most popular billionaires. I'm behind Adam Sandler, for God's sake!
A charitable donation, eh? Well, there's a first time for everything.
Take this check for two hundred thousand dollars to the Springfield Hospital.
Now there's nothing to do now but sit back and wait for the kudos to roll in.
Where are my kudos?
What?!
It's not fair! It's not fair!
Morphine, please.
Well, I will be when the morphine wears off, but until then, Teedily deedily dee dee. Teedily dee dee dee. Woo hoo hoo. Hee hee hee.
That's it, the radio! I'll go on the most popular program of the day. I assume that's still Don MacNeil and his Breakfast Club.
What's the matter? Think I'm not hip? I don't have enough vo-dee-oh-doh?
I'm pleased to...
Now, Mr. Rude, I just want you to know I'm a good sport. If you want to make fun of my legendary love of cashews, you have at it.
Oh, about forty, I suppose. When are we going on the air?
What!?
Great heavens! What kind of radiola show is this?
Oh, well, when I was six, my father took me on a picnic. That was a gay old time. Oh-ho, I ate my share of wieners that day.
Murder?! Well, mistakes have been made...
Now, now, see here...
Stop that! Attention wireless listeners! Most of the sounds you are now hearing are not being made by me.
Oh, stop! Stop! Won't someone please stop the farting?
That didn't go well, did it?
Oh... What's the use? I'll never be a popular, beloved billionaire like Arthur Fortune.
And a stunt like that impresses people?
Well, if a couple of Chinese bamboo gobblers can win people's hearts, I'm gonna bring them something that man has searched for since the dawn of time.
Even rarer.
Peter Graves couldn't find ugly at a Radcliffe mixer!
Where's my monster, Tubby? What do you people think I'm paying you for?
The beast looks something like this, only without the saucy t-shirt.
We're the laughingstock of the town.
Oh, it's pointless hunting for an animal that has 24 miles of water to hide in. Drain the lake.
You heard me. Deploy the de-lochinator.
I see it! I see the monster!
C'mon, boys, overpower it!
Fine. I'll do it myself.
I was a little worried when he swallowed me, but... well, you know the rest. And now for my triumphant return to Springfield.
Thank you, thank you everyone. And now, presenting the ninth wonder of the world, the eighth being Gomer Pyle's heavenly singing voice... I give you! -- the Loch Ness Monster!
Thank you, you're too kind. Yes, that's it, let it all out. Clutch me to your common bosom.
No, no! Stop it! Stop it! You'll enrage the beast!
No more pictures! You're driving him mad!
Ahhh!! Stop it! You're blinding me! No, I can't see!
Wait! Don't go!
LOVE MEEEE!
You know, perhaps you're right. I got so swept up with the notion of being liked, I completely forgot who I am. I'm a selfish old crank and that fits me like a Speedo.
No, no, no, I really want to give the lovable scamp a good home.
Tough luck, Simpson.
Oh, here we go with the fat-cat bashing.
Smithers, we're at war!
And hoarding! Leave it to the Democrats to let the Spaniards back in the pantry.
Now, there's an employee, Smithers. A smile on his lips and a song in his heart. Promote him!
Yes, Simpson, your love of food is contagious.
I've never felt jollier!
Oh, there go my shin bones again.
Turn around, Simpson.
Ah, yes.
I knew I had those installed for a reason.
Focus!
No, that's the rat poison!
This play really speaks to me.
I never liked that Dr. Stupid.
No!!
Charity, eh? Yes, I'd be more than happy to...
Oh, it's doing that thing again.
Thank you, thank you. Humbug.
Huh... This is all so sudden...
Don't give me that kiss of death, you black widow!
Oh, okay... let's see... I don't have a speech prepared, but uh, abra-cadaver...
"Thank you all so much. I love Springfield, from the cuddliest infant to th... ... puppies... patriotism... bluebirds..." I'm not reading this drivel. This speech is over.
Now that I'm the town's oldest man, I'm starting to realize I'm not a young man anymore. I'll have to start taking better care of myself. You know, I haven't had a medicino checkup in ages.
Very well.
But I'll need someone to watch my house. Who's that fellow who always screws up and creates havoc?
Yes. The way I figure it, he's due for a good performance.
Now if the house catches fire, I want you to call this number.
Yes. They're new, but they're good.
Let's see, social security number... naught-naught-naught, naught-naught, naught-naught-naught-two. Damn Roosevelt. Cause of parents' death... Got in my way.
Now Doctor, I want you to test me for everything. Every disease on this chart.
Oh, try this arm. I saw some blood in there the other day.
I'm a big boy!
Well, Doc, I think I did pretty well on my tests. You may shake my hand if you like.
Eh?
You mean I have pneumonia?
Juvenile diabetes?
Hysterical pregnancy?
I see. You're sure you just haven't made thousands of mistakes?
Well, this sounds like bad news.
Well...
So what you're saying is... I'm indestructible.
Indestructible...
Smithers, old chum, there's nothing like coming home with a clean bill of health. Oh, and sorry about your news.
Do they know how many eggs it laid in your brain?
Ugh. The foul stench of youth!
Well, let's see. Ming vase on narrow column, not knocked down... priceless coins not used in vending machine...
... yes, not bad.
What!? Well, I suppose some mishaps are unavoidable.
Furious George! What have they done to your beautiful face?!
There, there. Smithers, this monkey's going to need most of your skin.
Simpson!
I've just reviewed your ten-year performance record and it's appalling.
I think I know who Homer Simpson is. In ten short years you've caused seventeen meltdowns! One is too many!
You sold weapons-grade plutonium to the Iraqis! With no mark-up!
And worst of all, you took the "Hamburglar's" birthday off last Monday and Wednesday! Which is it? Now, my voice is giving out, so I'm just going to poke you for the next hour or so.
So, tell me, are all you government inspectors so handsome and strapping?
Of course not. He's just a harmless maniac, here to remind us of the precious gift of sanity. B... Oh, God! What's he doing?
Ahoy hoy.
Poppycock!
We're slightly richer!
Smithers, why did you iron a crease in these dungarees? I look like a square.
Oh, so it is.
Yes...
Oh, of course, Smithers. Anything.
A show about a doll? Why not write a musical about the common cat? Or the King of Siam? Give it up, Smithers.
Whoa, whoa, slow down there, maestro. There's a New Mexico?
Oh, fine. I can amuse myself.
Curses! It's jammed.
Hi-larious.
Well, with the old ball and chain gone, maybe I can finally have a little fun at the office.
Bah! A candy shop. Yes, I'll take two pounds of Bristol's toffee. Ooh, and don't wrap it too tightly - I'm hungry now!
You've made a powerful enemy today, my friend.
Hmm, this must be some sort of cafetorium.
Hmmm. What is this? Some kind of force-field around these vegetables.
Everything's so green and alive!
What kind of a raise?
I see. You have thirty seconds to wow me.
I don't want to hear your whining. I'm a bored and joyless old man, give me a laugh!
Oh, for the love of... Hurl this at that.
Well, let's decorate him then.
Not even for four dollars?
That was capital - my lung is aching.
Do it again! I'll make it an even eight.
Let's keep the laughs coming, eh, Simpson? What say I make you my Executive In Charge Of Recreation -- No, no, better yet, my Prank Monkey.
I can't have my little monkey running around in rags.
What are you doing, man? That's Carl! Let me help you.
All right, prank monkey, let's make mischief.
Look at that Comic Book Fellow calmly eating candy like a Spaniard. Time for monkey to shine.
Oh, that was uproarious. First-rate job, monkey!
Oh, where are my manners? There.
You're so much more fun than Smithers. Why, he doesn't know the meaning of the word "gay."
Okay, now!
Here you go, Monkey.
Look at their proud, hopeful faces. Wait'll they see that their rare Chinese panda is nothing but a fat guy in a suit.
Ooh, that's the heart of the bit!
That's it! Twenty-three skidoo... Twenty-four! Twenty-five skidoo!
Well done, Monkey! That other panda gave some unexpected zazz to the festivities, eh?
Too busy trying to keep my sides from splitting -- it's happened before. Monty say, monkey do. What could be better?
Oh, shut up, you tub of guts.
Well, a little do-re-mi will smooth this over.
Oh, come now. Everyone has his price.
Take that back for nine hundred and three dollars.
Ha!
Well, well, it looks like my monkey has evolved into a man.
A poor man.
Ahoy hoy, St. Nick!
Prepare to be boarded!
Silence, Monkey. Now that you're Father Christmas, we have an opportunity to bend this town over our knee and give it a pranking it will never forget. Here's what we do...
Not for one million dollars?
Ho, ho, ho. Merry Fish-mas!
Is everything ready for the secret meeting, Smithers?
I hope no one finds out about this. It's pure journalistic dynamite!
Turn it off!
Journalistic dynamite.
Then it's agreed. I'll supply you terrorists with deadly uranium.
Oh, pshaw.
Ohh, don't worry about those fumes. They'll be sucked into that air vent.
This place is falling apart.
Let go of me! I'm innocent!
He shoots, he scores!
It seems the Federales have been tipped off by an anonymous whistle blower.
Now, while the plant is brought up to code, there will be massive layoffs. That is to say, total layoffs. Toodles!
Well hello, Marge. Lovely day for tennis, eh?
This? Oh, it's just fluid collecting.
Faster, rickshaw driver! Faster!
Silence! You call yourself a Chinaman?
Allez-oop!
3 to 1. Oh, this is a high-scoring affair.
I'll get the ball out of your peach basket one of these days.
Hurry, Smithers. Halloween is upon us. Put up the decoration.
No, no! That won't scare anybody. On the top!
Splendid, Batsy. You've done it again.
Fourteen dollars and ten, eleven, twelve cents. There you go.
Ooh, me sorry, me no speaky Chiny.
Oh, General Gao... you were a bloodthirsty foe, but your chicken is delectable.
Hm, this cookie feels heavy, as if there's some paper inside.
That was my thumb.
Oh, there seems to be some sort of communiqué.
Capital! "You will find true love on Flag Day." Why it's Flag Day today! True love at last.
No time for jokes, Smithers! Come along. We're going womanizing.
...So I foreclosed on her mortgage and took her cats!
Excellent. Let me fetch you another Thomas Collins.
Damn that Pennybags. Between him and Scrooge McDuck, all the best ankle is taken.
Perhaps there's some girls in here.
Great heavens! It's one of those nude female fire stations. Ohh, I'd always be second place to some kitten stuck in a tree. Let's go, Smithers. Smithers?
Oh, that fortune promised me true love. This has been the worst Flag Day ever.
That constable is ticketing my car!
Now see here, flatfoot...
My goodness. You're beautiful.
Of course you do. You can lift my wiper any day.
Is it still Flag Day?
Miss, would you submit to a wooing by a gentleman caller?
Oh, frabjous day! She said "yes"!
Well, I've never dated anyone with their original hair and teeth.
Excellent.
In... to?
Oh, I enjoy all the popular youth trends. Like, uh, mm...piloting motorcoaches... and, uh...
Collecting dog waste.
So, what shall we do tomorrow? Go grousing? Or if you'd rather stay home, you could sing while I accompany you on the clavichord.
Oh, I've got some wonderful stereopticon images of the Crimean war.
Oh, balderdash! It's not important how old you are on parchment, it's how old you feel in the humors.
Look, there's one of my young chums now. You there!
Tell my young sweetheart here of our youthful exploits.
Play along, Chubsy. There's a pie in it for you.
So, shall I pick you up at eight?
Well done, young man. Your youthful trendiness will come in handy throughout the courting process. Because these days...
Where did you get that pie?
Drat! I wish that song were longer.
Oh, yes. That's totally voluntary.
D-- Oh, uh, constantly. When we're not being kicked out for our rowdy, youthful behavior! Eh, pally?
Put my hand on her knee.
I said her. And I said knee.
I'm going to make such love to you that, oh, you'll forget all about Rudolph Valentino. Turn left here.
All right, you're dismissed. I'll take it from here.
Yes, but I have a little secret. I've obtained a rare, powerful aphrodisiac.
It was made from the pockets of the pocket fox, an animal that only existed for three weeks in the sixteenth century.
Oooh! See you tomorrow night, Simpson.
Clean out your desk. You're gone.
Ooh. Once again, my dear, you've beaten two strapping young bucks.
Did you hear that? That "excellent" was... excellent.
In time, in time. I need to speak with you in private.
Back in a moment, my dear. We have to, uh... uh... expel some urine.
Isn't it wonderful? I'm head over heels in love.
Yes, my biological clock is ticking. I could be dead again soon.
Wait, my dear. I think you'll find that red ball more "engaging."
Gloria, say you'll marry me.
Oh, spectacular! Now we must celebrate -- I'll get some Champagne-iola.
This is the happiest day of my life. Nothing could spoil it. Absolutely nothing.
Kaloo-kalei! We're in luck! They had a magnum at the shoe counter. Now for... Gloria?
Her ring!
Well she's run off... with Simpson!
I don't understand. She was my young, sexy fiancée, he was my sexually virile best friend, and they just drove off in my Bugatti Sexarossa. How could this ever have happened?
You know, a little goatee thing.
My Gloria is still inside! Save her!
I don't care if she's Miss Hairless America... I'm spoken for. Now step aside -- I'll save Gloria myself.
Perhaps, but this monkey skeleton is in love.
Who am I kidding? I'm just a feeble old man.
Gloria!
Never forget, Homer, there's no muscle stronger than the human heart.
Yes.
I don't get it, Simpson. I'm a bad boy.
I'm absolutely evil!
What do I have to do? Grow a devil beard?
No, a Van Dyke has a mustache, doesn't it?
No! Wait, maybe.
What are you doing in my corpse-hatch?
Did I say corpse-hatch? I meant innocence tube.
I've been expecting this day for thirty years. In a way, it's a relief. But in another way, it's most unwelcome.
I'm afraid that skull belongs to my dear friend... Waylon Smithers, Sr.
But I did not murder him.
And I can prove it...
With this film.
If you see only one film this year that proves my innocence, make it this one.
Why are these numbers so high? Why is that red light flashing?
And what's that alarming sound? Smithers, get in here! Smithers!
Will you put that baby down? There's something wrong with the reactor core.
No, Waylon Senior! It could be filled with atoms and steam and other nuclear bric-a-brac.
So... you're a baby huh? How's that working out for you?
He did it!
Look at your heroic daddy in there.
Making funny faces. Falling to the floor. Shedding his hair. Lying perfectly still...
Oh dear.
Smithers Sr. gave his life to save the plant. And, since cover-ups were all the rage back then, I shoved his heroic corpse down the sewer pipe. I never told Smithers the truth about his father.
Smithers Jr.!
I'm sorry I lied to you, Waylon, but I wanted to spare you the details of your father's gruesome death.
I told him his father was killed in the Amazon by a tribe of savage women.
I hope it didn't affect you in any way.
I've got the answer. Just let me run this church like a business.
Oh, that's just a skip-rope rhyme. Believe me, the Lord's gonna go for this in a big way. Now, who's with me?
Excellent.
Oh, you'll get yours.
This is Lindsay Naegle. And don't let the skirt fool you -- she'll have this place making money in no time.
You're telling me!
Too bad. You've already signed the deal!
Oh. Well, we highly value your input. Until you sign the deal!
Good idea. I'll be hiding behind that tree.
Trust me, he'll say it, or I'll bust him down to Thursday night vespers.
So the good news is, church revenues are up one thousand and seventy-three percent.
When hell freezes over, suckers!
Oh whatever, just take it.
Let's get started. First I'd like to announce that thanks to the magic of Disney Animatronics, Strom Thurmond will live another hundred years.
Moving on to new business, what act of unmitigated evil shall the Republican party undertake this week?
You've already done enough, Nader.
No. The island of San Glucose. Good times.
Get a grip, Simpson. You're doing fine. Now, do you have your map?
Stroke, stroke, stroke!
No, I'm having one!
So, how are we enjoying the festivities?
Yes, the music is from Southern Hungary. That's quite an ear -- have some money.
"And so, potential investors..."
"...I hope you don't think our IPO is an IPU." Then I hold my nose thusly. What do you think, Smithers?
Well, I hope the investors like it. I have to raise sixty million dollars or we're out of business.
I told you, I pissed it away. Oh, don't make that face.
Yes, that's the one!
Smithers, I need someone who laughs at all my jokes. You know, honest feedback.
Well, you're a Happy Homer. What's your name, young man?
Well, if you liked that, listen to this: "Working hard... or hardly working?"
Smithers, you could learn a thing or two from this braying moron. Young man, I'm making you my executive vice president.
Oh Smithers, I would have said anything to get your stem cells. Now, welcome aboard.
Ahoy-hoy, executive V.P. I'm putting the final touches on my speech to the investors and I need your generous guffaws.
I'll either tickle your ribs or feed them to my dogs! Now we're ordering out. What would you like on your pizza pie? Extra cheese?! Who do you take me for? Lorenzo De Medici?
See you soon.
So profit margins will be thinner than Louise Brooks' negligee.
You know, Louise Brooks. The silent star of "Lulu."
Oh, I'm drenched with sweat.
I'm going to take a bathiola. When I come back, you'd better be laughing.
Brilliant! We lost sixty million dollars and they're cheering for more!
Yes, I regained consciousness during my big dance number. Those strings pulling me every which way jostled my heart from its slumber.
Oh, and you didn't? Well, the worm has finally shown his fangs. Smithers, make me slap him.
You call that a slap? Make me slap you.
Now both. Now just you. Now give me a taste. Now both again...
Now all three... Excellent.
Excellent.
Excellent.
I stand here to expose the criminal ineptitude of Homer J. Simpson. Again and again he has brought this town to the brink of annihilation.
Why are you laughing? His bungling has shortened your lives and mutated your children.
Just look at all of his catastrophic nicompoopery!
Excellent.
No problem. We've siphoned off extra power from the orphanage. Who are they going to complain to -- their parents?
YOU MAKE ME FEEL AS YOUNG / AS THE BLOOD I GET FROM SHEEP.
Yes, if he's smart, he'll hold out for millions.
Finally Smithers, a device worthy of storing my top-secret enemies list.
Number one, the Kingston Trio. Number two...
Welcome, fellow Republicans. To start with the old business, Brother Hibbert will read a report on our efforts to rename everything after Ronald Reagan.
Excellent. Now, to the matter at hand. Who will we put up for young Wilcox's congressional seat?
Are these indiscretions romantic? Financial? Or Treasonous?
No problem, we'll say you were on a fact finding mission.
Oh, have you now? Well huzzah, huzzah. I'll just throw back my legs and pollute my britches with delight.
And what book is that? The Ape Who Wanted A Big Bonus? Stop wasting my time, you corn-fed man-cow.
Would you mind?
Oh, Smithers. The environmental effects won't be visible for years.
I wouldn't go to jail. The legal owner of this plant would:
Canary M. Burns.
This entire plant is in his name -- so when they come to put C. M. Burns in jail, it's the canary that does the time.
Oh yes. Tycoons have been doing it for years. Why, Standard Oil was once owned by a half-eaten breakfast.
Smithers!
It's an emergency! Maroon alert! Or even vermilion!
The owner of the plant is gone. All that's left is this little mirror he used to amuse himself.
Hello, pretty boy. That's quite a beak on you.
Who wants a kiss? Who wants a kiss?
Good Lord! That canary was supposed to be my pigeon. I need to find a patsy quick!
Yes, yes, hello. Now, I need to find a patsy.
You're quite the friendly fellow, but right now I'm looking for a patsy.
You bumbling fool, I keep telling you I'm looking for a patsy.
This moon-faced simpleton is continually interrupting my search for a patsy! Hello.
... Now, a few more details about this year's company picnic. It's at the plant, no food will be served, the only activity will be work, and the picnic is cancelled.
Finally, I would like to add to any nuclear inspectors in the crowd, that the titular head of the power plant is now Mr. Homer J. Simpson.
That man's mad. Smithers, get this bedlamite an alienist!
So, the caterpillar has emerged from its cocoon as a shark with a gun for a mouth. I only have one thing to say to that... bravo.
We clashed lances on the Champs de Mars, and I have been bested. The plant is yours. Treat her well.
Yes?
Well, now that I'm forcibly retired, I feel I should give back to society and do some charitable work. But first, I want to take a lot of opium.
Knock, knock.
He's doing eighty years on an opium bust. I never saw a man take to a Turkish prison so quickly.
Simpson, I worked here for three-score and twain. That's sixty-two years in the "New English". Now, come with me, I want to show you something.
These are the people in my life I could never find time for because I was too busy working.
This was my fiancée, Gertrude. I was working so hard I missed our wedding, our honeymoon and our divorce proceedings. She died of loneliness. Loneliness and rabies.
Do you see why I brought you here, Simpson?
Steal my plant will you? By the time you wake up, you'll be walled inside my mausoleum forever!
Scream all you like, no one will hear you!
Keep begging. You're just wasting precious oxygen!
Brick by brick, I seal his doom.
Exquisite, just exquisite. Makes me wish I hadn't released the hounds.
No, no. It's their Christmas too.
Why, you're the first one here! Please accept this free ticket to the 1939 World's Fair.
Walking, eh? Let me give it a try.
Well, I'd better drag myself to the hospital.
Oh dear. Smithers, scoop me up.
Oh no! The Pawnee have returned. They probably want their souls back.
How you got in my carpool I'll never know.
Kent, I want everyone in your radio picture audience to know that this woman is a menace to decent people and germ warriors everywhere.
End communication.
Curse that "Groovy Granny"! This is America. Justice should favor the rich!
Oh man, that's good "E."
And so in the spirit of fence-mending and grudge-not-bearing, I hereby rename the Burns Germ Warfare Lab The Grandma Simpson Peace Museum and Kid-teractive Learnatorium.
Grandma Simpson, will you be the first to sign the museum's guest book?
Indeed. How about a national park?
I've got it all on this dictabelt. Move in, boys!
Supplying false information on a national park register is a federal offense...
Which you've committed at every national park, from Acadia to Zion. You're going away for a long time, Mrs. Simpson. Or should I call you...
Anita Bong-hitt?
Ugh... oh... umph... Oh, Smithers, guide me in.
Look, Smithers... crackle-berries! Spot me a federal, will you?
Money is for the poor.
Ah yes, the automated teller machine-eola-trola-maton.
Smithers, what's my password?
Excellent.
Let's see... what's the smallest amount of money I can think of? A thousand dollars!
My moolah! It's escaping my clutches!
Young man, I believe you have something that belongs to me.
When the errant bill struck my chest, it left a distinctive bruise. Had my heart been inside at the time, it could have been fatal.
Yoink!
What a delightful practically-based joke.
Yes, that describes Kathy in Personnel to a tee!
All right, everyone. It's time for your Christmas "boni." Everyone gets a five dollar cafeteria voucher...and for your boy, a confectioner's card featuring a current baseballer. It's that rookie from the New York Nine.
Yes... it seems they've started letting ethnics into the big leagues.
Oh look, it's Kathy! How are things in personnel?
Why don't you just take my blood?
Yes, I'm old.
I'll sign your petition!
Yes, particularly their supple young organs. Oh unfenced back yard pools, where would I be without you?
Yes, we're well-protected against every threat, from bomb-toting Bolsheviks, to golden-armed jazzbos.
Consider yourself fired!
Smithers, the board of directors is coming here today, and I don't want them to see Snap, Crackle and Pop down there.
No, no, just give them each a nickel and send them to Moe's. Let them while away the afternoon spilling their beer on gullets and trousers whilst drooling over French postcards.
Another employee family wedding. What's the traditional peasant gift in these parts? A milking cow?
See if Lenny wants to go in on a spoon.
Simpson, you're late, bald and stupid! I'm docking you a day's pay.
No looking at pictures of loved ones!
No angry grumbling under your breath!
Eat faster! Faster! Swallow on your own time!
Attention: while you've been showering here, I sold all your clothes.
Behold, Smithers, your so-called Messiah.
To the employee prison!
Now, let's see what we have here...
Simpson! You'll rue the day you took that pie tin, poked holes for eyes, and attached a rubber band around the back!
Silence! Or I'll chop you into suet for my murderous gerbils and hamsters.
Wait, I have a better idea. You'll work for me now.
In addition to working in your normal capacity at the plant, you will also serve as my personal hit man.
No.
Here's your first assignment. To prove your loyalty.
Do as I say or I'll tell the police. You'll do so much community service.
Now open the folder. It contains your next victim.
Come on! It's cobblering time!
Grow a spine on your own time, Blimpo.
Just one second, sweetheart.
Now pie that Brownie, fruitcake!
Ga-ga. Goo-goo. Your assignment.
That's right. All his talk of peace and love is really honking off my red Chinese masters. Now Smithers, walk me around the park until I fall asleep. I'm feeling fussy.
You have no choice. Pie him or I'll reveal your secret to the world!
Knock-kneed home renters. Can't we thin this herd with some smallpox-infected blankets?
Don't I already give out turkey slices to the poor?
Stop your wailin', Waylon!
I'm alive!
Oops, that stays in.
Because of my svelte physique, I was able to fit in a narrow air pocket.
I survived on whatever sustenance came my way.
Thankfully, a mother mole nursed me as her own until I was strong enough to continue.
Now, let's see how the common folk are grieving for their fallen god... me.
Here it comes.
Ah, yes, the little ones.
I have been "eighty-nine" for a while now.
Quickly, Smithers. Re-hydrate me.
This town cared more for a soulless piece of granite than for me! I don't have a friend in the world.
Don't be so needy.
Well, I'm going to change this town's accurate impression of me.
They were getting too grabby! All right, I know how to change the way the public thinks of me: I'll buy every media outlet in town. Bring me a checkbook and a mother mole!
I really got hooked on this stuff.
Good day. Hello!
That's right, I pulled a Jesus. Have a nickel.
Whose grave?
Carry on.
Okay, it's time to win the love of these hateful morons. Step one: amass a vast media empire.
Well, first of all, I agree with you two: it's sheer humbuggery that pretty girls can flirt their way out of speeding tickets.
Secondly, I want you to pack up and get out. I just bought this station -- and you're fired!
And play that delightful flush sound on your way out.
Indoor plumbing. The lack of it killed my mother.
I've done it, Smithers! I've bought every media outlet in town -- TV, radio, even the skywriters...
Excellent. But uh, put a little more apple in my cheek.
Splendid! Now, let's see how I'm faring on the jumping box.
Television, jumping box, pict-o-cube, just crank it up.
Smithers, do you know Bill from accounting? That's his daughter!
Bring that girl to me.
Maybe a little gift will change your mind.
Send in Sugarbelle.
Honeysuckle! Dewdrop!
Very well, you had your chance. I'm going to shred you like a Christmas card! Now, get out.
So... what do you think of today's popular music scene?
My God, are you always on?
This is an outrage! Since when are public figures fair game for satire?
I can't be held responsible for what my goons were ordered to do!
Non-violence never solved anything! Fine, curtsy boy, I'll try it your way.
Good God, I'm at war with a little girl... and I'm losing!
Smithers, this calls for the League of Evil!
My league! My beautiful league! All dead!
Blast! Well, gather their watches. I must find another way to vanquish the girl...
So, has your daughter always been such a righteous little rabble-rouser?
Fascinating. Do go on.
You saw right through me. Well done! Have some congratulatory drugs.
Now, tell me more about your daughter. And speak into the lamp.
Liberal whacko, eh? Any young beaux?
Yes, there's nothing more pathetic than self-delusion, eh.
Hello, Beefcake Charlie!
Bah. It's as easy as crushing an ant!
Take my wallet and leave me alone!
Well, I guess it's impossible to control all the media -- unless of course, you're Rupert Murdoch. He is one beautiful man.
Smithers, I'm a proud fellow, and it's not easy for me to admit defeat. But I know just the thing to make me feel better -- shopping!
I'll take it!
Stop that! The felt is slicing through me like a knife!
Now, I insist you take off your shoes when you get inside. And uh, while you're in there, grab as much cancer as you can.
Well, that hurt like Hell.
Oh, I feel full enough as it is.
Cheer up, my chubby inner child. I've got a feeling everything's going to work out fine. Because I'VE GOT YOU UNDER MY SKIN...
Smithers! There seems to be some sort of communiqué on that man's blouse.
Bolshevism! Sheer Bolshevism! Ripe for the quashing!
You're suspended without pay! Take your clacking balls and go.
And on your way out, remove all the fillings you got under our dental plan.
Good riddance to bad blubber. Smithers, want to go get a cup of coffee?
What the?! Why is everyone so insolent today?
I say when it's Christmas!
Well, well, if it isn't my favorite employee and his spouse. And these must be children. Have a ginger root.
I flew it at an altitude of six feet for a distance of four-and-a-half feet. Then we discovered rain makes it catch fire. Then the Führer fired me.
Greetings, wage-donkeys. Is everyone happy and content?
Is your sense of outrage dulled?
Very well... effective immediately the employee prescription drug program is terminated.
In these days of rising health care costs... blah blah blah... lip service, lip service... get out.
Fly, you fool!
Smithers... you must believe!
Next stop, Pirate Island!
Well, that was a pretty good party. Do you think Carol from payroll and Mike from shipping are going to hook up?
Change course! Carol must be warned!
Oh, there's nothing like canceling an employee drug plan to make one feel so at peace with the universe.
Shut up.
I'm so sick of you, Smithers. Your toadying, your complete agreeability, your gasping on the floor... Wha?!
Smithers! If this is some sort of hijink, stop it immediately.
Confound it, man! I need your throat clear and ready for perjury.
Fear not, Smithers. I'll move Heaven and Earth to save you! It's still easier than teaching a new assistant my filing system.
I've got everything you need.
No, you fool. 'Tis I, Burns! Now come with me.
At last, my plane shall be used for its original purpose. To subvert the laws of the United States.
We're losing altitude. Time to dump all unnecessary weight.
It's no use. We've got to make an emergency landing.
Now, we have three parachutes.
This one's for me...
And these two are gifts for my nephews. Tally ho!
Oh I hope I'm not too late.
Take, potion! Hurry!
Oh, it's not working. Only my sour, curdled breath will quicken him.
Yes. Smithers, I was a stingy old fool. But from now on, I'll provide drug benefits to all my full-time employees.
Smithers, we could make a fortune with these Bible pictures. And I've been looking for a way to launder the money I made selling club soda as flu vaccine.
No! As your financial backer, I insist upon reality. Pharaoh didn't put the sound in later!
The people being whipped!
Oh really? And what will you use instead of nuclear power?
Who told you about those?
Well, I know when I've been licked. Sorry, Ned. This movie will never be seen again.
Dis-embroider the crew jackets. We can still send them back.
I don't see why I need a new driving license. My old one's just fine.
Do you know this baby once out-raced the Flying Finn, Paavo Nurmi?
What are you talking about? This car is cooler than Guy Lombardo.
Good heavens, she's some sort of female madman!
Stop that, you want-wit! I might get stung by a bumbled-bee.
Those are my lungs!
Perhaps I can be of assistance!
Smithers! Tear me a new drape hole!
If you hand over the concert hall to me, I'll assume the debt and all of your problems will disappear.
Excellent!
Simpson, I haven't seen so many drugs in a wang since I ran a Chinese opium den!
"Crack, smack, uppers, downers, outters, inners, horse tranquilizers, cow paralyzers, blue bombers, green goofers, yellow submarines, LSD mach three, and trace amounts of human urine!"
Guards! Remove this coked-out man balloon from my sight!
Gentlemen, my prison is losing money. We need more convicts in the dungeonareum.
Now, now, there are perks. A private cell, extra dessert... and this adorable little hat.
So we have an agreement?
It's the only way you'll survive in here.
Excellent! Now, what have you got for me?
Tell me something I don't know.
Very good.
Well I'll make these rioters regret their folly. This prison will make Abu Ghraib look like the Four Seasons. Smithers, we'll need electrical wire, a hood and someone who can really point at genitalia.
I'll have you know I buy the finest cuts of beef.
Oh blessed urchin! How can I reward you?
No, sorry. My diamonds are going to be retro-morphed into coal... the most valuable substance on earth. I know. I'll send you to Yale, with the Monty Burns Scholarship.
Don't be so quick to say no. The ladies love an ivy-leaguer...
Hello, Smithers. Nice of you to drop by... after my life was saved.
Smithers, who is this barrel-chested go-getter?
Aw, that's cute. I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
Good Heavens! Grab a sponge, man!
Welcome, all! Now to explain why I summoned you here.
You're here to participate in a hunt for the world's most dangerous game.
The game I am hunting... is all of you.
Now, because I am too kind, I will give you all a five-minute head start. You may commence running.
Well, that broke the ice. Now, any man who lives till noon tomorrow shall win his freedom.
You tell me, you're my lawyer.
Excellent.
The game is afoot! I smell fear... mixed with curry!
You can't escape me, Simpson -- you're not smart enough!
Is there room in the head bag, Smithers?
Excellent.
Instead of donating this money, I'm going to use it to extend my own life another ten minutes. Smithers?
And the register.
Release the hounds!
I was taking them to the groomer's.
Who's a stinky dog? You are! Michelle's going to work on you today.
Remind me, Smithers: while we're out, I need to get my eyes re-balled and my brain flushed out with vinegar.
Excellent.
Enough! While you morons are canoodling, someone's burgling my miscellania!
Try to take my eggs will you? Well, this rooster has a beak! A beak which calls out death-a-doodle-doo!
Why... you're all women!
I suppose, but you're certainly buxom and flirty.
Oh, no jury on earth will convict a bunch of moist-eyed mothers. I'll tell you what, ladies, give me my eggs back and I'll let you go.
How dare you mock my mobile-a-mobile? It was the first car to outrun a man.
Of all the... I will not be lampooned by school children. Kill them, Smithers.
Well... whatever's easier.
I won't forget who mocked me! I'm taking your picture!
Now, hold perfectly still for seventy-eight minutes...
Simpson!
I just bought a new car. A nice foreign number... the Lamborgotti Fasterossa.
Yes, I need you to pick up my car at the factory in Italy, and ship it directly back to me. I'll save thousands in taxes!
Yes!
Sure.
It would be nice.
Simpson! Simpson!!!
Where is my roadster? You were due back a month ago!
GRR, WHY SHOULD I CARE? IT'S ALL HUMBUG!
Liberal midget!
Good Lord! A wooly bully!
Dammit, I forget!
Pangaea.
So long, sucker!
I mean, don't leave an old man to die.
So long, sucker!
No, he's out getting a spray-on tan. He comes back orange and stains the furniture -- the man's a walking creamsicle!
Yes -- and therein lies a tale of woe and heartbreak. One I couldn't possibly recount.
Okay, here's the story: I belong to a very exclusive club -- The Excluders' Club...
One day, while I was savoring the exclusivity--
One day a new member arrived at the club...
Nuclear power. I make money using my brain... not sticking a pole in the ground and praying for goo.
Sir, I challenge you to a duel!
How about we settle things with a scavenger hunt?
Dream on, bitch.
I had but one item left on the list... "A picture of myself with a smiling child." What could be easier?
Smile! Like this!
With nowhere else to turn, I spent the first three days with relatives.
I had to get a job. And I had to start at the bottom. But to get to the bottom, I had to work my way up from Moe's.
I'm a little busy. Can I do it later?
At five-fifteen an hour, it would take an eternity to make my fortune back -- and FICA wasn't helping.
But then, for once in my life, things went my way.
I steamed the letter open with Moe's cappuccino machine.
Treasure?!
-ue with the sad sto-
...coin at a time.
Oh, you poor man. You're about to get a lot poorer.
What the hell could that mean to you?
...so without my beloved nuclear plant, I have nothing to live for.
Take me, a barren old thistle, and spare this sweet young flower!
The sheep was no danger at all. I sacrificed my gorgeous body for nothing. This must be what it's like to have a baby.
A picture of me with a smiling child?! I can get my plant back!
100 Industrial Way!
Not so fast, Shady Bird Johnson!
I'll take that gold.
Honestly no, I'd rather have the gold.
Yes, let's.
I'll catch up with you.
Not bad.
Excellent.
Before we begin the movie, please join me in a moment of silence for the workers who gave their lives in an heroic --
What a great film, and I think it makes a terrific point: effective immediately, I'm closing the plant and moving all operations to India.
No, no, your jobs are safe. They'll just be done by someone else in another country.
However, federal law requires I keep one union worker on the payroll. So congratulations, whoever catches this bouquet.
I'm a showman!
Welcome, new employees of the Bangalore Nuclear Power Plant.
The energy generated here is transmitted through undersea cables right back to America.
Now, I'd like to introduce you to your new manager. You'll find his integrity and dedication make him untouchable.
Classic. Now, tell them how to run a nuclear plant!
He's got them eating out of his hand. And to think you doubted him, Smithers.
Simpson, I don't know how you're doing it, but you're outputting ten times the power our American plant ever did.
I see what you're saying. We're crowding your plate. In fact, there's no need for us to be here at all. Let's go, Smithers.
Mm-hm!
Absolutely not! When it comes to running a nuclear power plant, this man's a god.
Now if you'll excuse me, I'm late for a dinner engagement. I don't want my scooped-out monkey head to get cold.
No office talk. I'm floating down the Ganges with my new chums.
You never like my friends.
You know, Smithers, "I told you so" has a brother. His name is "shut the hell up."
Same boat, but uh, take it anyway. They use the boat for a Dixieland Booze Cruise while we're gone.
This man told you about these things?!
Up until now I was with you. Even the beast on beast combat, that had potential.
But treating employees like human beings... that is madness!
Well, I guess we'll have to relocate to an area where the workers are more desperate and ignorant. Springfield.
You're fired! You're all fired! Fired, fired, fired!
Go ahead and join them, Smithers. I know you want to.
Yes Nelson, of course I'll help... And a haw-haw to you!
On your feet, you sniggering Oran-gu-tan!
My fat friend, you are hanging by a very thin thread...
If you want to keep your job, then you better start... BA-BA, BA-BA, BA-BA-BA-BA-BA...
You're thinking about that ice cream truck, aren't you? Well, you can just forget about...
Come and lick me, Big Boy! I said lick me!
You're fired!
As for the rest of you, you're supposed to be a chair-hockey team! All I see is five show-boaters!
Now sit down and give me fifty twirls!
That's more like it.
Now Smithers, I need your advice picking out a gift for a very dear friend of mine. A single fellow, a bit quiet, but one with a warm loyal heart.
Shut up, shut up, there he is!
Hello, Phillip! What are you doing here?
Are you going to that string quartet thing? 'Cause I'm not.
Are you still here? Go pay for that!
Perhaps I may be of help.
I'm your cellmate. You never noticed me, because, frankly, you're extremely self-centered.
Young man, I have the answer to your problems.
I spent thirty years digging this tunnel, but now I can't use it. I'm simply too old.
But you can escape -- and use this map to retrieve my buried treasure. With it, you can have your revenge!
Well, because before my wretched life comes to a close, I want to know that I had one friend. Also, because while you slept, I violated you repeatedly.
Why? You're not helping me.
Release the hounds!
What are you people doing in my summer home?
I am an angry rich man!
Shut up, you waste of skin and fat! You've desecrated my every possession!
I've heard enough! Release the hounds!
Well, bring them over in the Durango.
Put Winston in the front.
Just do it! Do it! Do it now!
...and that's how I got the vending machine contract for the Kremlin.
Repugnant!
Is this Wall Street Journal online?
Smithers, I'm missing the fun!
Ah, what glorious goo!
What's in it for me?!
So, I see by your tie you're a Yale man, too. Let's croon, shall we? BOOLA BOOLA / BOOLA BOOLA...
Well done, gentlemen. Too bad Smithers didn't make it.
Excellent. But since I thought you were dead, you won't get paid this week. Make a note of it.
But you four... you're the real heroes.
Thank you, and goodbye.
Ta-ta, toodle-loo.
Go back to your tenements, where the O'Briens live next to the Goldbergs, who rub elbows with Antonellis, and the only thing you have in common is the squalor of your chamber pot. Oh how I hate you! Bye-bye.
Vile curd!
Simpson, you can take your putrid mess far out of my sight, you songless land-whale!
Look at that rabble-rouser! He's threatening our ill-gotten gains!
All right, next on my shopping list...a new phone!
Ooh, I thought that was a lemon drop.
Well, well. What have we here?
Why do I need another penny? I have billions. Still, if I don't take it, that hoodlum over there might.
All right penny, prepare to be pinched!
Come to papa!
Help... me! Help... me! Help... me!
You saved my life. There must be something I can do for you...
You're getting a free dinner...
...with...
...me!
I'll pick you up at five tomorrow. And I'll pick you up right now.
Got it!
So Simpson, I hear you like pizza pie.
Chicago, eh? Well what if I took us there now?
Who said anything about drive?
Now, would you care for some sushi?
And just so you know, she'll do anything for you. Anything except sex. And I do mean anything.
Now, why don't you listen to the musical stylings of Mr. Lionel Richie.
We'll be back before you know it.
Oh hush! Now let's enjoy the Miami of Canada -- Chicago!
Billionaire!
Just set it to voice mail.
An opera star!
Ah, nothing lifts my spirits like shopping.
Let's see, I'll take his liver, a case of Adam's apples, that motorcycle man's moustache...
Well, young people are my future.
That beautiful voice! It's making my heart race!
To the Betty and Herbert Weinstein Pavilion!
Excellent, excellent!
The Springfield Opera House, of which I am founder, artistic director, and standing ovation starter, is producing La Bohème. I want you to sing the lead.
We'll cover it with a rewrite.
My boy, you are a star!
Greetings, Two Forty-One.
I want you to eliminate this reporter: Kent Brockman. He found the gully where I dump electricity every summer to jack up prices.
I regret nothing.
So it's agreed: we cancel the rest of the primaries and offer the G.O.P. nomination to this knee-high want-wit.
But at least he won! The second time... assuming they don't find those ballot boxes in Ohio...
What's the delay?
Well, well, well...
Who's this delightful young lady?
Pity. You and I could've shared the world.
Hey, I've seen your wife. She's no Mamie Van Doren.
I suppose there's no harm in telling you. I'm using the rocket to dispose of Springfield's nuclear waste -- by sending it straight to the heart of the Amazon rainforest!
Well, maybe she'll like it better filled with dying trees and mutated animals.
Excellent.
Send in reinforcements!
Fine.
I've won every coin. But I feel strangely empty. Ooh, there's another coin. That should do it.
Five hundred.
Ten million.
Mmm... I paid a pretty penny for this pretty penny, but it was worth it.
Yes, but the problem is, if you had it, I wouldn't. You see the difficulty...
Oh, of course.
Smithers, step on it!
I only gave him four cents for that nickel! Monty Burns wins a--
Actually, my nuclear plant did that. And now that you know, your life is in danger.
Nonsense, young Woosterfield! Your fortune is greater than mine. It is-it is I who am at your service. Smithers! Fetch us some lemonade!
Premix?! I beg your forgiveness, lad. Smithers! Pour it down your pants.
Now squish about in those pants, rewetting every hour!
Come with me.
You know, Master Simon, I too was once the youngest in a wealthy family.
But fortune ended up smiling on me while snuffing the life from my siblings.
My older brother was trampled by a horse, my sister died of a poisoned potato, my twin was shot, that girl was stabbed, he ate another poisoned potato, spontaneous combustion, fell down a well, potato, potato, and impaled on the Chrysler Building.
Yes. Funny that.
A word of caution, young Woosterfield: watch out for those closest to you.
You don't know when they'll strike -- a boating accident, a mishap during a "ski trip." But rest assured one way or another they will do you in.
Now, would you care to continue this conversation on the teeter-totter?
I told you, I only weigh as much as my clothes and keys!
You won't know how they'll strike -- a boating accident...
...a "ski trip".
Ah, my favorite week of the year -- sophisticated financial discussions with my fellow plutocrats.
Food fight!
Take that, Ted Turner! In your face, founder of FaceBook!
Skinny dip!
Yay!
I raise a million dollars... and to sweeten the pot, my assistant, Smithers.
Bets don't talk. They see and raise.
Well, they're hardly worth a Smithers, but we don't have all night. Can you beat nine high?
So, I own a basketball team, do I?
So, let's see how my burly-bottomed ball-handlers are faring. Smithers, we're leading two to nothing! Run out the clock, boys. Run out the clock...
Who is that man, and why isn't his enthusiasm being punished?
How odd. His money seems to have bought him happiness.
I'd like to meet him, Smithers!
I see.
If you're really a billionaire, give me the secret billionaire's handshake. Smithers, turn away.
So tell me, why don't you recoil from the public like a normal billionaire?
Fun? Is that how it's pronounced? I've only seen it written.
It's time for this peacock to show his feathers. You know, the feathers with the big eye that trick them into thinking that's my front? Said feathers are what I'll flaunt!
Silence! Now, let's make some noise for everyone's favorite basketball team, whom I have renamed the Springfield Excitement.
Now I would like to sing our National Anthem.
MY COUNTRY 'TIS OF THEE / AUSTRIA-HUNGARY...
OBEY YOUR KING...
What?! The Archduke is dead?
Then what happened?
Then what?
Then what?
Then what?
Then what?
Then what?
Then what?
A European Union?! Good heavens!
Ladies, hold onto your husbands! It's time for the saucy antics of Springfield's own Basket-belles.
Enough of this vulgarity. Back to your brothel, harlots!
Now, enjoy your game and the madcap antics of the free-wheeling title-holder of this asset: me!
Yes. Was that a real gorilla?
We have to turn this business around! Time to think outside the boxeola... what would Mark Cuban do?
That's not much help.
New arena...
That's it, men! Pave and tar the way God intended!
I can, I shall and in the future I will have done. I cannot be stopped!
Kill his acorns and make him watch!
Excellent speech. Just excellent. I no longer wish to build my magnificent new basketball stadium.
Heavens no!
No skyboxes... no "kiss cam"...
Nor will we have the chance to marvel at number one draft pick Muk Mu, the human North Pole.
No, I'm afraid he'll be on the first kayak back to Ketchikan.
Welcome to the American dream: a billionaire using public funds to construct a private playground for the rich and powerful.
And now, so our skybox owners can really enjoy the game, I shall let in the sky!
You've won this round. But when next we meet, the beekeeper will be the beekeepee!
Help me, Muk Mu!
...so that's how I was outfoxed by a little girl and her half-wit companion. When my beautiful stadium was declared a bee sanctuary, and I had to take a third-quarter writedown of eight hundred four million dollars.
Wait, wait, wait, it's only a matter of four million. I'm sure I can find that somewhere. I, uh, I have fifty dollars here in my wallet...
Mark, can you get me off the hook -- for old times' sake?
No! No! Just kill me now!
Young man, you have the noble bearing of the barbarian leader Vercingetorix
.
Tell me, what student government office do you hold? Secretary? Treasurer? Dare I say Secretary-Treasurer?
Oh, hot dog! Say...how would you like to work for me?
7-G?! Let the Lennys and the Carls of the world waste their wretched lives in that testicle-shriveling torture chamber. Son, you'll be working in... Sector 6-F!
Apaches!
One hundred thousand dollars.
I need a place to store my cufflinks.
Pass. I've already lifted this thing once today. I'm not Hercules!
Well, well. If it isn't the Tardy Boys and Nancy Clueless.
Oh, I've known about the gem for years. You see, my dear girl, I joined the Freemasons before it was trendy. That's my eyeball on the dollar bill.
That's also my pyramid.
Hence I trailed you on your quest, accompanied by my faithful albino.
Then why do I give you all the albino holidays off? Hm? Hm?
Oh, everything is "writing" to you young people!
Fine. Then you unscramble those letters to spell out the location of the gem... while you two dig your own graves.
So the gem is inside you?
Of course. St. Teresa wouldn't be interested in a mere bauble. Her greatest treasure would be a pure young girl. You are pure, aren't you?
Hmm... I don't really want you people inside, but you could dangle from the skids.
No. It feels weird.
Back when I wrestled at Yale, I was in the lightest weight category -- "ether weight." Now, get ready to face the wrath of the "New Haven Nuisance"!
Side-mount! Takedown! Advantage! Reversal! Reversal! Clinch! Clinch, I say!
Saratoga slam! Aristotle's dilemma! Knickerbocker knucklebreaker! And so on.
Ah, I expect you're all anxiously awaiting my choice for your new supervisor.
In any event, much as what formerly was my kidney is now my heart, I've decided to promote from within. One of you will get the job. But which one?...
Congratulations! I dub thee King of the Morons, also known as Supervisor for Sector Seven-G. Here is your key to the executive washroom.
Her shapely gams have finally persuaded me to switch from the Julian calendar to the Gregorian!
... and that's how you win an opium war!
The Yangtze River swallows all secrets.
Yes, although these days I can make neither haste nor waste. You know, Simpson -- this has truly been a lovely afternoon.
Release... a hound.
I'm afraid your daily donuts are no more.
Until Mr. Roosevelt's New Deal starts working, this country's still in a depression. I'm spending a fortune on atoms, and we have to cut costs!
No donuts!
Exactly.
No! No! This is our year! How can this be happening?
Comparing me to old Draco, eh? I'll have to do something about this.
Gentlemen...
Please don't leave me!
Oh, I imagine Cap City's been wooing you with trips to the seashore, a Christmas goose, Spanish lemons... folderol I can't afford to match. But please, accept this little going away present.
Oh, but these aren't just any donuts. These donuts were made the old-fashioned way: the dough is sweetened with Cuban sugar from pre-Batista plantations, then it's deep fried in the tallow of three different animals, two of which are now extinct.
Well, if you stay on at the Springfield Nuclear Plant, you could have one of these tasty beauties every day.
Sure, you can have a health plan... or, two donuts a day...
Fore!
I feel like I'm mashing the tufty on the links at Saint Andrew's!
No, it's all thanks to this self-powered experience approximater!
Wait, I'm shooting at Nazis? That's not how I remember it.
Gentlemen, I'm afraid we've detected a small leak somewhere in the heavy water piping facility.
Don't leave until you find that leak!
Oh, indeed it is. Tonight I will be continuing my courtship of Princess Wilhelmina of Prussia.
Tonight's the night I pop the question: where's the Kaiser's gold? Now get to work on that leak!
Colonel Burns? Why, I haven't heard my father's name in years.
No! No! Let me go!
Surprised? Me, C. Montgomery Burns, locked up like an animal.
What caused this puzzling turn of events?
Well, I'll tell you my tale... by thinking about it to myself.
...and so our Employee of the Month is the late Roger Ducette, who tragically died from complications due to union organizing. Moving on. The Power Plant's first annual Fourth of July picnic is this coming Saturday!
Ooh, I'm afraid you misunderstand. This picnic is for me. You will all be spending your Independence Day slaving away in the hot summer sun without pay, lotion or gratitude.
Yes, duh-ohhh, indeed.
Spare ribs, eh? I've played a round of tenpins or two in my life, and to me, the word "spare" reeks of second best. Give me ten full frames of strike ribs!
And you, find my doctor and ask him why I'd ask for something as insane as strike ribs!
Yes. They should go. Just as soon as they perform this musical I've written in celebration of our nation's birth.
Grab your scripts, people! We open in twenty minutes! Break a leg!
I said break a leg!
For God's sake, man, it's a figure of speech. You're fired!
Meh. Smithers, take my hands and clap them sarcastically.
More sarcastic!
Smithers, sound the alarum! Summon the shire reeve! Wake the beadle!
Well, I... you see... it's just is it a crime to want nice things? And then to steal them from a public museum where any gum-chewing monkey in a Tufts University jacket can gawk at them? I think not!
The entire town turned out to jeer me. Me, whose velvet breeches their lizard lips had so often joylessly smooched.
They continued for some time in this vein, until...
So ironic. After all my years of stock jobbing, gun running, attempted murder, successful murder, and tom peepery, they get me on a petty multi-million dollar art theft.
Smithers, until I am released, you shall be running the nuclear plant.
Be strong, Smithers. Be strong for the plant. She needs you.
This would've been a perfect time for it to start raining. Oh what the hell -- I'm telling this story!
Not dramatic enough.
Frostbite took his nose!
Excellent.
That prison was like a prison to me. Not a prison of bricks and iron, but one of steel and cement. They took everything from me.
That's just an S.S. card, you Dummkopf!
My only hope lay in befriending the warden.
Yes... but a wealthy man can buy information, information that can be highly damaging to a certain warden.
Well I'm sure the boys at the city desk would be interested to learn that you're addicted to... to...
Can't read my own writing. But I'll tell you this, warden, it starts with an "H"...
It's clearly more than three letters!
I haven't had a cavity in over forty years.
Nor was I.
I was afraid you'd be some tattooed bruiser.
Dartmouth?! Get me away from this hideous brute at once!
At once! Do you hear me?!
Guard!
You don't have a "whisper" voice, do you?
Hm, looks like it's pledge day. Which jailhouse fraternity shall I join?
The Shriners?
The R.O.T.C.?
The Sunday funnies?
Or one of these other dining clubs? Look at them circling me like I'm Cinderella, belle of the ball!
Warden! Help me!
Why can't you reject your guy?
Shan't.
I've died and come back. It's overrated.
I'm afraid that was just my pre-evil.
I feel it! I feel the love coursing through my vein!
So that hellhole became my Heavenhole. I joined the prison choir...and the Prison Beatles Tribute Band.
I raked a Zen garden in the courtyard...and found a peace and serenity I'd never known.
No! No! Let me go! Let me go!
Why would I want to leave the place where my soul was saved?
And that's where we came in. Now, without further ado, here's what happened next:
But first, I'll daydream about a sport utility vehicle, a crispy chicken sandwich, and a wonderful blue pill.
Everyone doesn't have to know that part.
Look, if I leave with you, they're just going to throw me back in.
I'm afraid so.
I had a little left between my toes. It quickly multiplied, and now I'm a bigger bastard than ever. But I must know -- what was it about me that made you try?
We're not so different, you and I.
I'll do the firing around here.
All of you, out of my office!
Farewell, friend. Maybe you'll find another lost lamb for your flock.
I LIVE ME IN A MANSION / FULL OF THOSE GRECIAN URNS / BUT I'M LONELY ALL THE LIVE-LONG DAY / THAT'S THE BLUES OF MONTY BURNS
OH, MY TAPESTRY'S MEDIEVAL, / MY HEART, IT'S EVIL TOO / BUT THAT DON'T MEAN I DON'T NEED LOVE / FROM LESSER TYPES LIKE YOU!
Did they jump on the pile to smoosh it down?
Eh, just find the biggest idiot on our payroll and slip it in his bag.
Ooh. That's a Bingo.
He's the meanest man in town.
Bah! Computers! They'll never replace my Huffnagle autocollator!
Crank it, Smithers! Crank it!
Yes, well apply more goose grease!
Yes, I'd like thirty-seven snifters of your influenza syrup. One for me, one for Smithers here and the rest for my hounds.
They'll see me take it and they'll want some. Yes 'oo will. Yes 'oo will. You little jelly belly.
Hurry up and get in -- I'll drive.
Ahhh. I feel as hail and hearty as an eohippus.
Spit it out, Doctor! I haven't got all day.
Dying?!
How long do I have?
No. It's better that they hear it from me. I'll tell them the truth in the simplest way I know how.
Good evening -- I have very sad news for all of you.
The truth is... I'm dying.
It's not! My days are roman numeraled!
Stop this! Stop this at once or I'll...
I'm warning you! You are making a very powerful temporary enemy!
I see. I am well and truly hated. However, you will change your tune when you see the legacy I'm leaving behind me.
I'm leaving all my money to an orchard that will grow inedible "me"-shaped fruits.
They're as addictive as they are poisonous.
I haven't a friend in the world.
I pay you, Smithers. And no kind of love can come from one man paying another.
I'll just retire to my bed.
Shred them in the wood chipper and use the rags to wax my car.
Why does everyone hate me?
Smithers, I want to die quietly, on my own terms, crushing as many of those baby sea turtles as I possibly can.
Goodbye, insufficiently cruel world!
Friend?
You my mommy-daddy-puppy?
My name Oatmeal?
Wait for Oatmeal!
Oatmeal accept premise.
Me not feel good.
Lots of room for friends.
That's me!
--and they can also bloody well change back!
Daddy's home.
Smithers! Trading me in for a younger model, I see.
And me smell like drugstore cologne the rest of the day? I don't think so. You may hug... my shadow.
Attention, insects! The foot of reckoning has arrived!
Silence, you sadistic monster! I've got my memory back, and I'm going to wreak a terrible vengeance. Taking an idea I got from a Stephen King book, I'm going to cover this town with a dome!
Really? You don't say. Did you know about this?
I see. Well, what if I cover you all with... a cube of bulletproof plexi-glass!
Set 'er down, Smithers.
What the devil are you talking about?
Could it be? Perhaps kindness did keep me alive.
Young man, would you like a lemon drop?
It wasn't kindness that was keeping me alive, it was bile building up inside! Loathing is my life blood and rage my royal jelly! So yes, thank you, Springfield, for giving me the secret to eternal life -- hate!
What are you doing here?
Preposterous! I won't be Bismarcked into fathering anyone!
That's my boy!
Ooh, a carrier pigeon. Perhaps an update on the siege of Khartoum.
"Do a ballet dance without no clothes on." Bad grammar, but good advice.
Merry Humbug, everyone!
Well, last night, I had a visit from three spirits...
Wait, what's this? Carpetbags and portmanteaus? Going somewhere, Simpson?
Hm, your goblin fainted.
Simpson! Where's your Christmas tree?
Well, I won't interrupt your holiday any longer. Merry Christmas to all and to all a good... pop star slash fashionista, Katy Perry?!
Just what's going on here?
It's a Christmas miraculum!
You lied to me! Release the hounds!
They'll be here any minute!
I kissed a girl and I liked it! All is forgiven, Simpsons. Go and enjoy Ha-va-eee.
Just as soon as we sing one Christmas carol.
Of course not! I want to sing the original, unabridged "Thirty-Nine Days Of Christmas". And a one and a two...
Well. This is awkward.
Oh, I so believe that.
Who?
Hush!
Charles Montgomery Plantagenet... Schicklgruber... Burns.
It is. I know it's hard to see a young buck like me and think of a day when I'm no longer in the pink.
Yah! Yah!
Yoink! Yah! Yah!
Yes, it always saddens me that you and Sheldon have never gotten along.
Smithers, you are the campiest of my aides du camp, but I'm afraid my true admiration is reserved for the self-made man. No Steve Woz-ni-ak thee.
No, not until you earn it. Until then, I will never see you as my equal.
Smithers... wait!
In case you didn't hear me, I said I will never see you as my equal.
Excellent.
A splendid gentlemen's club. You've earned my respect.
Ooh, a good old-fashioned lemon party! I call first squeeze!
Actually, I'm standing in front of you.
I decided to hit the local nighteries with my trusted wingman.
So, which of you wants to be the sliced haddock in a geezer sandwich?
Accursed tide! Flee from my wrath!
No! I've been moistened!
Just because it's too hip for you, Smithers...
Okay, going down the checklist: feu allumé...oui. Ballon gonflé, oui.
Now... Enlevez le ballast!
Commencing aerial inspection of the plant... unflattering graffito...neutralized.
Gadzooks! The one hazard this balloon cannot negotiate -- a gentle breeze!
Help! Curtail my ascent! Curtail it, I say!
Help! I'm wafting on a zephyr!
Simpson, your sharpened-shooting has saved my life! Name your reward. Anything -- just name it!
Lower and likelier.
Nothing-head day!
Pish tush! Wayne, as a reward for your valiant fisticuffery, I hereby award you the Springfield Nuclear Plant Silver Safety Hat!
Mother, is that you?
I expect insolence, but rank insolence? Off with his job!
So!
Oh, Simpson. You do know how to whip my buggy.
Simpson! A gangly little bird told me you've been lollygagging at the Biograph.
You're demoted.
Down!
Although this millennium is still young, I feel it is time to award this giant trophy paid for with your healthcare cuts...
To our beloved Roz...
What the deuce? Sarcastic clapping?
You're fired!
This is the famous "party."
Feh. Guh. Pffoy.
I was in an anecdote once!
Your cotillion seems to be in full promenade.
Do you have anything by Prince... Wilhelm of Prussia?
COME JOSEPHINE IN MY FLYING MACHINE!
BALANCE YOURSELF LIKE A BIRD ON A BEAM
May you all fly in an aero-plane someday.
Indeed. That Homer Simpson is the beating baboon heart of this party.
I may have a use for this Simpson character higher up in the organization.
Simpson, you're probably wondering why you're here.
When I made you a hoop you split your pants! Now here at the plant there's no position more important than our accounts man, who's responsible for glad-handing our customers and suppliers. I'd like you to take over that position.
Just give me your answer! And make it quick! Our current "account man," Robert Marlowe here, is retiring at the end of the month.
Yes. Simpson, only you have the bonhomie and rotund charm to replace him. It means a hefty expense account and a corner office.
Simpson! Put on your charm-their-pants-off pants! The mumpish oafs in Washington are sending their sternest band of nuclear regulators, handpicked to resist all blandishment.
Rafting, eh? It's a perfect way to entertain them. Finally, humanity has found a use for water.
Excellent.
It's about time. We've been making small talk about Mussolini for fifteen minutes.
Take us out first! Anyone can start a family! These days, no one can find a job!
How ironic. I survived the Titanic by making a raft out of steerage passengers and now this!
Marlowe? I thought you retired!
Well, Simpson, you were willing to let me go over a waterfall, but you cut operating expenses by six percent, so you're forgiven.
I don't think so.
Now they're all excellent choices, so simply pick the white male candidate you prefer and we'll elect him.
Getting a little clingy, aren't we?
Well, bah to them. Let's go, Smithers.
Oh, all right.
Oh, no indeed! Now if I can just get my three million dollars back...
Can someone open this bottle of mother wolf placenta for me?
My rubberized bands! My binder clips! My accordion Post-Its!
Oh Lenny, why would you steal my bear?
That's my cuddle bear! I loved him, I shot him, he's mine!
It has come to my attention that you lunch-bagging wage-lizards are robbing me blind!
You don't even work here!
Only one of you monkeys wasn't caught with his sticky paw in my tin cup... Homer Simpson!
Now Simpson, how is it that you alone manage to keep your moral compass pointed to true north?
Hush! Now, while Simpson gets the day off, the rest of you will write thirty-page essays entitled "Homer Simpson: Moral Lodestar."
No you may not!
Attention, wage worms!
It's time for afternoon announcements.
This Monday, the plant will be conducting physical examinations of all employees.
Anyone testing positive for narcotics will be terminated immediately!
And don't forget, federal law mandates that we consider alcohol a drug.
This trapdoor app works like a charm! Excellent.
This is the last time I pay the price for the irritating mortality of the human worker! Smithers, it's time to re-staff with the super-intelligent kangaroos we've been breeding!
Even the joeys?
More high-tech than kangaroos?
Ladies and gentlemen, meet the future masters of the human race.
You fool! These are robots! You will train them, and they will replace you.
I give you permission to shake your fists in anger twice.
I didn't say "Monty says!" Now I have cause to terminate!
Monty says "shake your fists."
Now get out.
This is no game!
Excellent.
So we need one meat sock on the payroll. But who?
Simpson, wait! As it turns out, there is one job available. But be forewarned, it promises naught but soul-crushing boredom.
Yes.
Well, it looks like we've found this plant's one remaining worker of bone and sinew.
It's one, excluding mine falsely!
What about this?
Cheap power, plentiful jobs, and all your swimming holes shall be warm and bubbling.
Of course.
Now see here! You are so not the heartless automatons I was looking for! There's one thing man has that machines can never match: hounds!
Fine! Slink away! And guess what: all those times I said "you're a good boy," it was a lie!
No! Stop! I'll give you the combination to the num-num safe!
Flee, you fool!
Ahh. The solarium. We'll be safely cornered in this glass room with one door.
Stop brandishing me!
Well, it has four digits...
Well, I've learned the robotic worker is no match for the old-fashioned man of labor. You're all hired back... as temps!
Explain this infernal wheel to me again!
Enough of your double-talk!
Excellent. He's alive. Smithers, give this man one ibuprofen, uncoated, and send him back to his workstation.
Oh, pish. When I was in Africa, I had my skull cracked open by cannibals, and I'm still kicking!
Oh, that's right. I have his memories because I ate his brain.
Fine. Eight weeks off... with pay.
That's a good thing!
Simpson!
Unhand your Edison slate and bring your gold-brickery to a caesura!
Excellent!
Nuclear energy was a craft before it was a science.
I mean, what's wrong with the old ways?
When uranium came from a stream...and atoms were split by hand...then transformed into the kind of electricity that illuminated not just our homes, but our souls as well?
Who decided that the electrons we produce can't stand for something greater?
Sure, handmade electricity costs more and powers less... but maybe that's the point.
The adventure begins!
Shoo! Go have one of your enormous litters!
First inventor: you, bus driver! Give us the gist of your terrible idea!
No. Any word from Karl Rove?
Dammit! I guess it's time I explain, to these good people, the upcoming...
Fiscal cliff.
Think of the economy as a car and the rich man as the driver. If you don't give the driver all the money, he'll drive you over a cliff. It's just common sense. Furthermore, rich people feel things more deeply than the common man.
And we've got to change our approach to immigration. I have a progressive proposal to let into this country, two hundred grimy Irishmen a year. I've got lots of potatoes that need peeling and stables to be mucked out.
Well then let me just say this: Marco Rubio es un pañuelo rosa!
How? Why?
This public service announcement is over!
Execute the cameraman!
To decide how much your electricity bills will rise, I've assembled a team of distinguished economists...and placed plausible rate hike percentages on their backs.
Now we will use unfettered free market principles to arrive at a number. Release the hounds!
Notice how the Keynesians climb trees while the Austrian school economists hide under rocks.
And there you have it, folks -- rates will rise a healthy seventeen percent. And now, to help you disperse...
Oh, don't be silly. Release the radioactive steam!
Oh, hello Smithers! Fancy seeing you in Casual Encounter Park.
You're Glamorous Godfrey!
Glamorous Godfrey was the most famous wrestler in the world! And you are he!
Behold!
Pshaw!
Pshaw, I say!
The world may have despised Glamorous Godfrey, but that conceited mother-puncher was my hero.
Please, Abe, let me buy you dinner in exchange for a few tales of the golden age of professional grappling.
Well, it looks like you've made a new fan. It'd be a shame to let him down...
Excellent. So we'll take the boy and make a night of it.
I can't believe I'm on the town with Glamorous Godfrey himself! Tell me of your epic battle with Swedish Olaf Johannsen.
What I wouldn't give to see Glamorous Godfrey in action once more!
Would you ever consider throwing your wig back into the ring?
You've got it all wrong, my friend. Once you see it my way, you'll understand that being hated is the greatest feeling in the world.
DON'T REALLY CARE FOR CHASING WOMEN /
NO, I GET DRUNK ON... BOOS /
BECAUSE...
YOU'VE GOT TO LOVE TO BE HATED /
FIND THE GOOD IN BEING BAD /
THE CROWD IS FULL OF GENTLEMEN /
BUT THEY'VE PAID TO WATCH THE CAD
YES IT'S A HOOT, A KICK, A GAS /
WHEN YOU'RE THE VILLAIN OF THE SHOW /
ONCE YOU WEAR BLACK, YOU'LL NEVER GO BACK /
IT'S A HIGH TO BE LOA-THED! / CHUCKY, STALIN, MEGATRON / ERIC CARTMAN, DONKEY KONG / VADER, NADER, SIMON LEGREE / TERMINATORS ONE, TWO AND THREE / IAGO, JOKER, VOLDEMORT / MCENROE ON CENTER COURT / MR. BURNS AND SKELETOR / KEEP YOUR GOOD GUYS, WHAT A SNORE
SO LISTEN UP BECAUSE I'M GIVING / THE BEST ADVICE YOU'LL EVER KNOW / SO FEEL THE THRILL / I KNOW YOU WILL / IT'S A HIGH TO BE LOA...THED!
Welcome, aficionados of the roped ring, to a thrilling night of senior-on-senior action.
And now our main event. In this corner: Baby Face Palooka...
And entering the ring, America's original vainglorious bastard... Glamorous Godfrey!
Yes, feel their hatred. It makes you strong, powerful... alive!
Who would film such a thing?
Fake? Ridiculous! If professional wrestling were fake... that would make every fan in the history of the sport a complete and utter moron.
You know, I've always had a keen eye for tiny talent.
Perhaps you and the lad could "tag team" up...
In this corner, for truth and justice -- Captain Flag and Half-Mast.
Now entering the ring, the first family of foul play: Glamorous Godfrey and Beautiful Bart!
What are you doing, Godfrey! You're a villain, not some bullet-brained rail-splitter. Without someone to hate, there's no excitement, no thrill!
How dare you! I wrote a song for you! When am I ever going to use that again? Curse you and this morbidly obese little half-wit.
Look at those eyes! There's an employee with a healthy case of the go-get-'ems!
Hear that lion's roar of determination.
Look at those delightful children, Smithers... all those healthy organs, ripe for the harvesting.
It's Easter! Why aren't these people at work?!
Good Lord! Look at all these comical booklets!
You know, I used to collect these bestapled fables...
How much for your entire collection?
Just give him Faraday's Constant.
I get a whiff of the immigrant from these newfangled superheroes.
Hmm... reclusive millionaire, stately mansion, damaged psyche. He's just like me!
Smithers, I too shall become a crime-fighting bat!
But I won't become just any bat -- I shall be the terrifying bat who swoops from the sky and sucks the vital essence of his prey. I shall be: Fruit-Bat-Man!
No sooner than I'd forget my own mother!
Well, then, where's my stuffed mother?!
Hist! Look there!
This looks like a job for Fruit-Bat-Man!
The police? Bah! Every last man on the take. And I should know, because I'm on the give.
I've never felt more alive!
Feel the crumbling fist of justice!
I am the squeak in the rafters, the flutter in the chimney, the tiny teeth-marks in the peach... I am "Fruit-Bat-Man!" Now, back to my natural realm, the inky night!
I'll just take one of these keychain penlights.
You have to keep squeezing this thing?! Who has the strength for that?
A toast, to our enigmatic new protector -- who certainly isn't me! Smithers, wink my eye!
Well, I hate to get all pruney, but heated tubbery is what we playboys do!
A civilian! She mustn't know I'm a hero! Gouge her eyes out!
Don't you get it?! I don't care who you are or what you want.
Now get lost!
What do you mean "actually?" I've punched out four Homer Simpson-shaped burglars tonight alone.
Even the abominable Doctor Lenny?
Behold the pointed ears of justice!
Yes, feel the weightless tickle of justice!
Which side won, good or evil?
And which side was I on?
Well, there's two surprises!
Pause the inquisition!
Behold the real egg-flinging fiend!
Excellent.
Is this better?
Maybe I could wrap them around your gabby little throat!
I open one, no trump.
You've just made a powerful enemy.
Your plan failed! Thank god this plant has never had a functioning air conditioner.
That's impossible! Smithers, didn't we move this plant to China?
Oopsie.
There isn't a prison made that can hold me! Prisons are still made of mud and wattles, right?
Amazingly, the hamster's older than I am.
I don't hand out candy, you son of a Gritch.
He pulled out bamfoozlers, and side-winding whizzles...
Let this be a lesson to those who love cash, that your nice stash of cash could be gone in a flash. And if you are awful and nasty and cruel...
Why is it company parties always get weird?
Step right up, only two bits!
Thrill.
Thrill as Marguerite conquers the air!
Laugh at the clowns' buffoonery!
Disbelieve, as the Strong Man pulls a wagon with his bare tongue!
Or gape in terror at Almighty God's whoopsy-daisies...the Freaks!
The Human Donkey...
The Terrifying Callback!
Creatures from another galaxy!
And now... I must ask that small children leave, good women avert their eyes, and men take a stiff slug of circus whiskey... behold, the most hideous creature of all!
All of you! Get back out there with your flippers flapping, and your stumps a-stomping! Joe and Jane normal expect some entertainment for their nickel!
Enough! You will comport yourself with the dignity expected of a traveling freak show!
If it makes you feel worse, I'm the man who bought the stock you sold.
Just one.
The girl that got away. She broke my first heart.
Speaking of return on investments, my Apple stock is up thirty-five hundred percent!
Ah, reckless youth.
I was referring to him.
I had a spring in my step like that once, back when I met Lilah.
Anything she wanted I was willing to do. Anything. Except...
All I have left is my drawing.
It looked a lot better in my memory. But do you know what, Smithers? I will find Lilah and win her back... I'll just check with the old gang. Hemingway!
Picasso!
Matador Juan Belmonte!
And Stalin!
That man could really put pressure on you.
Lilah's alive?!
Married to Jesus, eh? Does he beat her?
Those raked rocks could've been me! Now since you're so good at finding things, find the exit!
You're becoming very tiresome.
Who moved my desk?!
Well then, I should disrobe at once. Housekeeping! Send up a Chinese dressing screen! And one of Firestone's finest vulcanized prophylactics! Be right back.
Smithers! Which do I take first? The rhino horn or the tiger tongue?
Bah! I'll just do it the old-fashioned way. With my pump.
Just powdering my nose, darling!
Smithers! Run down to Sears Roebuck and get a five-eighths inch Phillips head bolt!
Ah, I see you're ice cold with anticipation.
Dead?
Oh Lilah, even at the end I waited too long. What if I give her the breath of life?
Hoo boy. I guess one regret just leads to another.
There you are, my good man. A little broth will cure your mental illness.
You know what? I think I'll give it another five.
I'd like a word with you, young lady.
Slid in through the grates.
Here's the "scoop." You're our future so we can't afford to have you lose. And I love the Spanish, from the Inquisition to the delightful Franco years.
But who'd own you then?!
No one says I can't buy a second grade election. Why, I had enough money to fix People Magazine's "Sexiest Man Alive."
Most of the money went to convincing them that I was "alive."
Right here! Now, Smithers. I want you to eat this for me, describe every taste, and don't forget the brain freeze!
And I'm backtalk-allergic! So start eating!
Smithers! We won! Drop the balloons!
Ow! Ooh! Ay-eee!
Excellent! Excellent! Excellent!
Ho-ho humbug! Santa Claus approaches to judge and punish!
Don't worry. This Santa still has claws!
As of now, each of those nuclear nitwits is wearing a video camera -- with a direct feed to me.
Smithers... how much did this company lose to office supply theft last year?
Yes, well, no more of that... thanks to this twenty-six million dollar surveillance system! Beware, rabbits... I spy with my transplanted eyes! Oh, and I forgot to show you the best feature!
Each of these buttons represent an employee. When I press it, he or she dies.
What's wrong with this thing?
Who are you?!
I'm so sorry, Mr. Burns. I won't disturb you again.
Oh dear God.
Excellent.
Where's my bird going?!
Release the--
Hold that famous temper, Smithers, Who is this?
Simpson, introduce me to this almond-eyed beauty, and all is forgiven.
From the Wisconsin Standees! Milk-fed, yet so slim. Permit me to play you a tune on my mouth organ.
Sorry you died! Put the body with the others.
Dispose?! I've come here to pitch woo.
Welcome to Earth, local time is ten-thirty-seven, we know you have your choice of portals so thank you for choosing the Burns Hellport, a division of Gulf and Western.
Welcome to the most frustrating, befuddling, and yes, erotic, book release party you've ever attended.
I don't think you want to wear it now.
Get them, becostumèd weirdos! Sex view blockers, keep blocking!
Indeed it is. "Evergreen Terrace" is built atop a massive shale deposit.
Think of it, all that poor natural gas, trapped underneath your shanties and lean-to's. Smithers, give these two brats what they deserve for sticking their noses in my business.
I don't recall.
I don't recall.
I demand to see that capitalism-castrating suffragette this instant!
You haven't bested me! I will find a way to shatter that shale!
Maybe the planet wants a strong man to take her by the hand and lead her!
Oh, and I suppose you do?
Kissed.
Wait a minute... I'm not having a stroke, am I?
I don't think so.
Me?
Best I've ever had. And that includes... Nellie Taft.
But you're a soft-hearted liberal!
As soon as I collect my things.
If I want to resume fracking...
I have to buy the mineral rights for every single parcel of land in Evergreen Terrace. To win people over, I'll need a salesman whose folksy façade masks a deep gusher of greed.
Congratulations Simpson. You're now my Chief Energy Innovation Marketing Officer.
All you've got to do is sell fracking to your friends and neighbors.
Bah! Fracking produces enough clean natural gas to make America independent of sheikhs, caliphs and... Scandinavians. Not to mention it doesn't create any of that awful worker-mutating nuclear waste.
Then say yes to this raise, this promotion, and this flannel shirt which says "I'm not screwing you over!"
Oh Maxine, no one insults me in a sound bite the way you do.
Same time tomorrow night? I'll bring the oxygen!
I have embarked on a "beneficial friendship" with a woman with whom I have nothing in common. Her opinions are abhorrent to me. But the passion... well, look at these racy texts she sends me.
Hmm... Well then I must harden my heart against such an outcome.
Hold on. This feels light. One of these deeds is missing a signature.
The gas rights transfer form for 742 Evergreen Terrace was never signed by Marge Simpson!
"All I lost was money?" Let me make one thing perfectly clear -- our dalliance meant nothing to me! You were but a sprig of parsley garnishing my beefsteak, and now I cast you aside for the busboys to gnaw upon! Consider this ill-conceived affair terminated!
So, you've come begging not to be fired? Smithers, turn my back on this man. Maximum huff!
Nothing in common, eh? Tell me more...
Different, exactly. That's why I had to give my woman the old heave-ho.
Not for one Chinese second! And I'm sure she's forgotten all about me.
Whatever are you doing, man?
A project this bloated and ill thought-out could only be the work of an angry liberal... Maxine!
My ex is using the thing I hate most against me... big government!
Stop this ribbon cutting! This is private property!
You're just doing this to get back at me for dumping you!
The Antonin Scalia bedroom!
Who are you?
Stop laying about, you! There's work to be done.
If that woman thinks she's been scorned now, she ain't seen nothing yet...
It's fracking time!
Just like you destroyed my mansion.
Likewise, you planet-saving succubus!
What is he doing? He was furious at that woman, now he's embracing her. He told me himself they had nothing in common!
I was a fool to break up with you, Maxine.
You think we could make "us" work?
But we've got passion, and as long as we've got that, our lives will never get boring.
I wish we had bought the more expensive theater tickets. I'll never see anything in row "BB".
Why are all cars black or grey now? It's like if you see a red one, it's a big deal.
That-that could be anyone's ooze!
Simpson!
Time for your holiday gift!
In your name, a donation has been made...
...to the Salvation Army.
Also, you will be visited by three spirits tonight. No, wait, that's my schedule. Smithers! We need to cancel the ten-thirty spirit!
Thank you. You are free to go.
Of course.
Suggestion eight thousand, four thirty-two: Nix!
Technically an order...not a suggestion.
Installing an M.H.D. Generator would allow the plant to operate at a higher temperature without the tyranny of moving parts. Using conducting plasma as the moving conductor...
Excellent! Clearly the work of Lenny. That's the white one, right?
Never!
Henry Ford! Good to see you. As healthy and vibrant as Detroit itself.
Young man, I look at you and I see myself.
How much would you charge to work for me?
Could you... repeat that first part?
Once more, with feeling!
Now, let me feel the vibrations of your lips!
Smithers, there's something strange in his mouth.
Hm, I see.
Okay, Musk. What do you propose?
My doctor says I'm not allowed to imagine. So I hired someone to do it for me.
I'm in!
Here you go. Imagine.
This is wonderful, Smithers. For once in my life something's going my way.
Oh, another visit from Mr. Worrywart.
Says you!
You know what I'm going to say, right?
I was going to say "get out," but your idea sounds better.
Of course.
One, two, three!
Not on my carpet!
Welcome, friends. I've invited you here to share in our first quarterly profit report. I'm sure you're all eager to hear how much richer I am. Now, to end the suspense: Elon?
Yes.
Oh, the planet. I adore the planet. And do you know my favorite part of the planet? Gravity!
No, no, no! Musk, you tricked me!
Oh, all I wanted was to make obscene profits in the last year of my life and leave it to no one. Why does God hate dreamers?
Due to recent fluctuations in my judgment, and the once-in-a-lifetime mistake of trusting another human being, I am saddened to announce massive layoffs.
Not my concern!
Your so-called "savior" isn't interested in saving anything but the world. Bah!
Smithers, the hounds feel terrible for what they did. And good news, one pooped out your ear! We'll dip it in iodine and it's just like new.
Also, I'm sorry I couldn't find the records of the shots the hounds had, which in turn led to all those painful injections in your abdomen.
Now, the reason I'm here.
I've made the calls. I'm going to have Elon Musk killed. And I'll give you a little extra morphine, friend.
Oh, right, that's a trap door.
Nonsense! Just because a man can't see or hold his hand steady doesn't make him any less of a marksman.
Sweet Columbia Exposition. Musk lives!
A human zoo?
Occupied.
Hey, swabby. You've missed spots there... and another one there... and there... Every other spot is begrimed!
You're f...
Young man, how do you fit such brilliance into such an ugly ethnic head?
Interesting attitude for a janitor. What say we make you the new supervisor of Sector 7-G?!
Smithers, what profit a man if he gain the world and lose his soul. Seriously. I need an amount. In round dollars.
Yes, yes, go ahead. And be careful with the Venus flytrap!
They say you catch more flies with honey. I say with flytraps!
Just lean into it. It'll be over soon, one way or another.
...after we show you the wealth of jobs in the steno pool, a hearty luncheon of bison with lake beaver will be served...
...and upon leaving you will each receive a piece of orangewood to bite down on during childbirth. Excellent.
It's getting harder and harder to maintain my sunny disposition, Smithers.
Shut up.
Curse that Elon Musk! Thanks to that Earth-smooching buttinski, I'm on the verge of bankruptcy. All I have left are the clothes on my back and the clones in my freezer.
I had to replace my beloved hounds with teacup poodles. It's pathetic. Watch. Release the hounds!
But I have a new scheme that will undo the terrible damage done by my other schemes. I have an appointment with a Nigerian King to negotiate a uranium deal that will put me right back on top.
I'll just have to sell everything and move to the South Pacific with you. What a grim fate that would be.
I'll have the berries.
Welcome, your Majesty.
Oh, this is for me.
Hm...
That man is the perfect choice.
Simpson, all you have to do is babysit the Princess -- keeping her in this hotel room during the negotiations.
So my offer... for one ton of your uranium... is a goat.
Two goats.
All right, let's cut to the chase. My board has given me permission to go up to... twelve goats.
I'm so sorry I pretended not to be gay for all those years. Better an old queen than never a queen at all.
Pay attention! My last offer: twenty million goats.
Oh great! Here comes the haggling!
Two now. Nineteen million, nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand, nine hundred and ninety eight on delivery.
What are you talking about, Smithers?
There's never a bright side!
Yes, you've torn that up all right.
So the good King's cheap uranium will allow me to sell you expensive nuclear power. Everyone wins.
Oh God, what do you want?
Where are the hounds when I need them?
Can you go five blasted minutes without saying the word "virgin?"
Hello. I'm proud to announce that we have been able to increase safety...
... here at the plant without increasing the cost to the consumer, or affecting management pay raises. However, for you semi-skilled workers, there will be no Christmas bonuses.
One more thing: Merry Christmas.
Look at that man. He has the crowd in the palm of his hand. Haven't seen anything like it since Jolson. Who is he?
Oh, so that's his little game. Get this Simpson character up here right now.
I said, DO IT! NOW, DO IT! DO IT! DO IT!
Ah, Homer Simpson, at last we meet.
Simpson. I want you to rejoin our power plant family.
Hear me out, Simpson. I don't want you to come back as a Technical Supervisor, or Supervising Technician, or whatever the hell you used to do. I want you to be in charge of safety here at the plant.
The generous offer I'm making is good for exactly thirty seconds, Simpson.
Simpson! Time's up!
Excellent! Your first duty will be to step out on the balcony and tell that crowd this plant is safe.
Go on, Homer.
You mean you're willing to give up a good job and a raise just for your principles?
You're not as stupid as you look... or sound... or our best testing indicates.
You've got the job. Now get to work.
Good to see you. Glad you could make it.
Oh, please, please, don't fight. Just go out back and have a good time.
Fire that man, Smithers. I don't want him or his unpleasant family to ruin my picnic.
Excellent!
Ah... Hello, there, uh... uh...
Oh yes. And this must be your lovely wife... ... "Marge." And look at little... ... "Lisa". Why, she's growing like a weed. And this must be... ... "Brat".
Oh, for the love of Peter! That's all anybody brought. Some damn fool went around telling everyone I love that slimy goop. Well, toss it in the pile over there.
And make yourselves at home.
Trouble, Simpson?
Yes.
Yes.
Close one this year.
Musicians, cease that infernal tutlitating. "Thank you all..." "...for coming."
But now it's time to say goodbye. Please get off my property until next year. I suggest you don't dawdle. The hounds will be released in ten minutes.
Awww. That's the kind of family unity I like to see. Smithers...
Get that man's name. I predict big things for him down at the power plant.
I've never seen such an obvious attempt to curry my favor.
Excellent, excellent. Perhaps this energy conservation fad is as dead as the dodo.
Look, there it is! The head!
Ummm, the child seems rattled.
No, no I can't.
Look, there it is! The head!
I love you, Smithers.
Simpson, eh? A family man?
I'd like to see our self-styled Valentino tomorrow morning, Smithers.
What in blue blazes do you think you're doing, Simpson?
I mean this!
A plant employee carrying on like an oversexed orangutan in heat! This is a family nuclear-power plant, Simpson. Our research indicates that over 50 percent of our power is used by women. I will not have you offending my customers with your bawdy shenanigans!
Just a second, Simpson! Smithers, would you leave the room for a minute?
Simpson, I am by most measures a successful man. I have wealth and power beyond the dreams of you and your clock-punching ilk. And yet, I've led a solitary life. The fair sex remains a mystery to me. You seem to have a way with women, a certain... how shall I put it? Animal magnetisme. Help me, Simpson. Tell me your secret.
Simpson, I'm asking you nicely.
Simpson!
Of course! It's simplicity itself! I won't forget this, Simpson. Now return to your work, and tell no one of what transpired here.
Homer Simpson!
How does he do it, Smithers?
You, with the hair. Down in front!
Why you young ragamuffin. I was never one to back away from a snowball fight. Smithers, you may fire at will.
Morons! Pathetic morons in my employ, stealing my precious money. This is hopeless! None of these cretins deserve a promotion.
Wait. Who is that young go-getter?
Simpson, eh? Hmmm. An unspoiled lump of clay to mold in my own image. Our new junior executive. Bring him to me.
Proceed, Smithers.
Any suggestions?
Well those are my ideas! You people don't think, you regurgitate. That's why I promoted someone who's in touch with the workers. You!
You then! How would you improve the worker situation?
Fish sticks? What in blazes are you talking about?
I know what fish sticks are! Get to the point!
Shut up, Smithers. Can't you see what he's saying? A happy worker is a busy worker. Three cents worth of tartar sauce could save us thousands of man-hours in labor. I like the cut of your jib, Simpson. Let the fools have their tar-tar sauce!
Hmmm. Brilliant. Who could have ever imagined that Simpson's sweeping reforms would pay off so quickly?
My dear tired old Smithers, do I detect a note of jealousy?
It is time. Give Simpson the key.
Oh, hey ho, men. You know I was watching the DuMont last night and I happened to catch a fascinating documentary on Rommel, the Desert Fox. Now there's a man who could get things done.
Towel please, Simpson.
I said, Simpson!
Well done, Simpson. Now, walk behind me down the hallway.
I want you to weave that patented Simpson magic with my executives. A short speech, work work work, you know.
Excellent. Set you to your task, Simpson.
What! Blast his hide to Hades! And I was going to buy that ivory back scratcher! How did he do it?
Thank you very much, Professor Science! I know what dimoxinil is. Now go and make an example of this hooligan.
And now, with some fresh insights, one of the rising young stars of our nuclear family, Homer Simpson.
What in blazes? Who is that old geezer? And what has he done with Homer Simpson?
He's crazy!
Well, well, well! Our dashing young junior executive! You made a hollow mockery of our morning meeting, Simpson. I should fire you on the spot! But I'm not going to.
Simpson, how old do you think I am?
I am only eighty-one. You may find this hard to believe... but in my salad days, my crowning glory was a bright shock of strawberry blond curls.
Ooh, I was big man on campus until my senior year, when I became as bald as a plucked chicken. You see, Simpson, I too know the sting of male-pattern baldness. That's why I'm giving you your old job back.
Now get out of here before I reconsider.
Hi, ho, faceless employees. In a few moments the government inspection team will be touring your plant so look busy and keep your mouths shut. That is all.
Hold me, Smithers.
I suppose that's normal background radiation? The kind you would find in any well-maintained nuclear facility? Or, for that matter, playgrounds and hospitals.
I'm as shocked as you are.
Now, that shouldn't be.
Yeah. Well that's always been like that.
Ah, well done. A rested employee is a vigilant employee.
Look here, Inspector. Could I speak to you privately I-in my office?
Oh, look! Some careless person has left thousands and thousands of dollars just lying here on my coffee table. Uh, Smithers, why don't we leave the room and hopefully, when we return the pile of money will be gone.
Look Smithers, the money and a very stupid man are still here.
Is there some confusion about this?
Take it! Take it, take it, you poor schmoe.
Oh, well... a little dab of paint here, a little spackle there... how much could it possibly cost to fix this place up?
Fifty-six million!
Oh, that I had the strength to take it out on you, Smithers. Now please go. I would be alone.
ONCE I BUILT A RAILROAD / MADE IT RUN / MADE IT RACE AGAINST TIME/ ONCE I BUILT A RAILROAD / NOW IT'S DONE / BROTHER CAN YOU SPARE A DIME./ HALF A MILLION BOOTS WENT SLOGGING THROUGH HELL / I WAS THE KID WITH THE DRUM.
Empty! Bah!!
HEY DON'T YOU REMEMBER / THEY CALLED ME AL / IT WAS AL ALL THE TIME / HEY DON'T YOU REMEMBER / I'M YOUR PAL / BUDDY, CAN'T YOU SPARE A DIME.
Ah!
Working late, Simpson?
You and I are a dying breed, Simpson. I'm going to share something with you. Hop in.
Homer, they're trying to shut us down.
They say we're contaminating the planet.
Why can't the government just get off our backs?
Oh, get off your soapbox, Simpson! Do you realize how much it costs to run for office? More than any honest man can afford.
To create a new and better world.
Huh uh.
Huh uh.
Huh uh.
Yeah.
Oooo!
Why are my teeth showing like that?
Ah. Excellent. This is exactly the kind of trickery I'm paying you for. But, but how do we turn your average Joe Sixpack against Mary Bailey?
How do you do.
Nice to meet you.
Ah...
Hello!
Visual aids help so much. Thank you.
I hate that fish!
I am smiling.
How's this?
I'm going to be sore tomorrow.
Oh, don't worry --
-- by the time this paid political announcement is done, every Johnny Lunchpail in this whole stupid state will be eating out of my hand.
Oh, hello friends. I'm Montgomery Burns, your next governor, and I'm here to talk to you about my little friend, here. Blinky.
Many of you consider him to be a hideous genetic mutation. Nothing could be further from the truth. But don't take my word for it. Let's ask an actor portraying Charles Darwin what he thinks.
Oh hello, Charles. Be a good fellow and tell our viewers about your theory of natural selection.
So... you're saying this fish might have an advantage over other fish. It may, in fact, be a kind of super fish!
No. You see, friends... if our anti-nuclear naysayers and choose-up-siders were to come upon an elephant frolicking in the waters next to our nuclear power plant, they'd probably blame his ridiculous nose on the nuclear bogeyman.
The truth is this fish is a miracle of nature with a taste that can't be beat. Mmmm mmmm. So, to summarize: Say what you want about me. I can take the slings and arrows. But stop slandering poor, defenseless Blinky. Good night and God bless.
Giving me a total of...
And I say taxes are too high!
Have you found any dirt on Mary Bailey?
Ah, and?
Bah! Not good enough!
We're gonna send - a message - to those bureaucrats - down there in the State Capital!
Hot dog!
Oh, dear. Heaven forefend.
Oh. I get your angle. Every Joe Meatball and Sally Housecoat in this God-forsaken state will see me hunkering down for chow with Eddie Punchclock. The media will have a field day!
Well, I... I knew there would be sacrifices.
Only an innocent child could get away with such blasphemy. God bless them all. Amen.
Hello, Homer. Marge, you look dazzling. Oh, and look, I've brought noodle kugel.
I love dogs... babies, too.
Aaaah... kitty, kitty.
Oh, of course. A little roughhousing with the pets is good for a man's appetite.
Excellent.
Goodness! I didn't realize this casual dinner was going to turn into a charged political debate.
Homer, I agree with you and, if I'm elected governor , I will lower taxes whether those bureaucrats in the State capital like it or not.
Lisa, do you have a question you would like to ask your Uncle Montgomery?
Oooh, a tough question, but a fair one. Lisa, there's no single answer. Some voters respond to my integrity. Others are more impressed with my incorruptibility... still others by my determination to lower taxes, and the bureaucrats in the state capital can put that in their pipes and smoke it.
...some can't even get a fair shake, or even a square deal... Ummmm, smells delightful.
You must have a few tricks left up your sleeves. Smithers, boil some coffee. We're not licked yet.
Wait! Come back! You can't do this to me! I'm Charles Montgomery Burns!
Smithers, tip over this table for me!
Shut up and wreck something.
She's right. Take me home, Smithers. We'll destroy something tasteful.
Ironic, isn't it Smithers? This anonymous clan of slack-jawed troglodytes has cost me the election, and yet if I were to have them killed, I would be the one to go to jail. That's democracy for you.
Simpson, I shall make it the focus of my remaining years that your dreams will go unfulfilled.
Ah, the Gammills. Good to see you.
Well, take your mind off contaminates for one night and have a hot dog.
Put a little smile on his card, Smithers.
Ah, well, if it isn't the Simps.
Huh? Hmmm, oh, oh yes... Homer and Marge Simpson. Oh, and these must be Bart, Lisa and uh, "Expecting".
Heh, heh. As well they might. You know, Smithers, when I was a young buck, my patented fadeaway pitch was compared by many to the "trouble ball" of the late great Satchel Paige. Spit on this for me, Smithers.
Oh, shut up.
Ah, sitting with the employees. I guess this proves I'm their friend. You did get me something on an aisle, Smithers? I don't want to be surrounded by them.
I suppose you want a beer?
Actually, I was wondering if you'd join me. My treat.
No. Vendor, two, please.
THE HITTER'S OFF HIS ROCKER / KISSING BETTY CROCKER!
Oh well, I used to rile the late, great Connie Mack with that one at old Shibe Park.
Hmmm. Crude, but I like it. What do you say we freshen up our little drinkie poos?
Well, Simpsie, you up for another wave?
Damnation! These banjos couldn't carry Pie Traynor's glove.
My one game of the year... ruined by pathetic incompetence.
Yes. Unfortunately, Homer Simpson's shameless display of exhibitionism tainted the entire evening. I want him banned for life from all company outings.
Mmmm, delicious. Smithers, every year you outstrip yourself in succulence.
Oh, no! I couldn't eat another bite. Dispose of all this. I did, however, save room for your special pumpkin pie.
Release the hounds!
Oh, for crying out loud... Just give him a nickel and let's get going.
Ah, Simpson! At last we meet.
Yes. My attorneys have advised me to pay you for running over your child. So I'm cutting you a check.
... One... Hundred... Dollars! Of course you'll have to sign a waiver, relinquishing your right to sue and so forth... merely a formality...
Oh, so extortion is the name of your little game, is it Simpson? Very well. Then you get nothing. I have the finest lawyers in Springfield, Simpson. Tangle with me and I'll crush you like a paper cup.
Throw him out, Smithers.
A million dollars! Smithers! I want this Homer J. Simpson fired!
What about the headlines?
Well... all right, then. I don't want to seem like an ogre. I'll bide my time. Let him twist in the wind... slowly... slowly. And then... when the papers have found their new "flavor of the month", he'll find out this cat has claws!
I should be able to run over as many kids as I want!
You wouldn't dare.
Oh, please.
He's lying!
Certainly. Oh, it was a beautiful day. The sun was shining. I was driving to the orphanage to pass out toys.
Suddenly, that incorrigible Simpson boy, darted in front of me...
Oh, my goodness! Look what's happened!
Why you despicable, cold-blooded monster. Regardless of what you think, we must summon help, and comfort the dear boy until an ambulance arrives.
Noooo! Take me, I'm old!
And that's what happened.
What are you looking at me like that for? You believed his cock and bull story.
They hate me? Well what trial were you watching?
Oh yeah, settlement? Fine! Hang your heads in shame, you over-priced, under-brained, glorified notary publics! Just get that big ape to my house tonight and we'll buy him off with a banana or two.
...and that ugly customer was the last Indonesian Rhino on earth.
Oh, I don't like everything about them, just their heads. Well, would you care for some wine, old buddy?
Bottoms up Simpson, there's plenty more where that came from.
Yes. Now then, Homer, old chum, I'm sure you'll agree with me that this trial is an affront to our collective dignity. What do you say, we settle this man to man?
Oh, no, I mean I'm prepared to offer you a most generous cash settlement.
A princely sum...
Well, a handsome sum that can end this little embrolio once and for all.
Up-up-up-up. Don't answer me now. Relax, talk it over with the missus, soak in the opulence of your surroundings and dream of what might be. Smithers, let's go powder my nose.
The fish is in the pan.
Oh, I feel faint..
Phony doctors? Hel-lo.
And you won't even get that.
Sorry, offer's expired. I guess we'll just have to let the jury decide, twelve good men and true. Good day. Smithers, release the hounds.
I'm going to write a figure on this piece of paper. It's not quite as large as the last one, but I think you'll find it fair.
Smithers, check out the luscious pair on that red-head. That's it, baby. Work those ankles.
Who the Sam Hill was that?
Simpson, eh? I want him in my office at nine o'clock Monday morning. We'll see who eats whose shorts!
Excellent. I'm so keen on seeing Watson vs. Tatum II, I'd even go to an employee's house. Oh, I can picture it now. The screen door rusting off its filthy hinges. Mangy dog staggering about looking vainly for a place to die.
Permission granted.
Thank you, Smithers. Your candor is most refreshing.
Oh, hello, Simpson.
We were just in the neighborhood and thought we'd drop by.
The fight? Don't mind if I do. Oh, Simpson. Good news -- I brought some munchies. Smithers -- the Cheetos.
Oh, hogwash! Why, I once watched Gentleman Jim Corbett fight an Eskimo fellow bare-knuckled for a hundred and thirteen rounds. Back then, of course, if a fight lasted less than fifty rounds, we demanded our nickel back.
Grampa -- I can call you Grampa, can't I?
I need that money. Please, please...
Well, the ownership is divided.
Mr. Simpson, I dread the day when a hundred thousand dollars isn't worth groveling for.
You just made yourself a very powerful enemy, old man.
Smithers, find me an artist.
Garbage! What matchbook art school did you flunk out of, you ham-fisted, nearsighted house painter? Smithers, throw this on the dung heap.
Well, Smithers, I guess that's what you call your "artistic temperament".
Damnation, Smithers! This idea of yours to immortalize me in a portrait was as half-baked as your idea about me having children!
Who?
Excellent. Once again the wheel has turned and Dame Fortune has hugged Montgomery Burns to her sweet perfumed bosom. Somebody up there likes me, Smithers.
Shut up.
Well, don't people answer the door these days?
Rin-go?
Beatles, eh? Oh, yes. I seem to remember their off-key caterwauling on the old Sullivan show. What was he thinking? Mrs. Simpson, this commission and all its glory can be yours, but first you must look me straight in the eye and answer one simple question.
Can you make me beautiful?
I'm no matinee idol.
Hmmm. Mrs. Simpson, you may immortalize me.
Yes, yes, yes! Now don't be stingy with the blush, Smithers.
Oh, there's an original sentiment.
Take it outside, Simpson. I'm male modeling.
Well, aieeee! There's something on my leg! Get it off! Get it off!
Ah, Ziggy... will you ever win?
If you'll excuse me, I'm changing for a board meeting.
I heard that.
Of course not, Smithers. You're like a doctor.
Smithers, I want my tea!
Bah! Too hot!
Will you cease that infernal tootling!
We've only got two days left, so I'd advise you to shut up and paint!
Let me get this straight. You're pleased with your current appearance? Ah, why my good man, you're the fattest thing I've ever seen. And I've been on safari.
Thank goodness. Another day in this suburban nightmare and I would've needed half a white valium. Thank you for your gracious hospitality. See you at the unveiling.
Friends, art lovers, security personnel. Today is a red letter day for the Springfield Palace of Fine Art. A new wing for our museum and a portrait commemorating the man who ponied up the dough.
Ladies and gentlemen, may I invite you to behold... Montgomery Burns!
Smithers!
Marge... a word, please.
You know, I'm no art critic, but I know what I hate. And I don't hate this. Your painting is bold but beautiful. And uh, incidentally, thanks for not making fun of my genitalia.
