Don't worry, Bart, we'll find something fun for you to do.
Ah! Here we are! Here's a whole box of unsealed envelopes for the PTA.
Oh, licking envelopes can be fun! All you have to do is make a game of it.
Well... for example... you could see how many you can lick in an hour, and then try to break that record.
Yes... well... get started.
You didn't believe me when I said it would be fun, did you?
What?
Hmm... Well there's still a minute to go... oh, why not! But don't you tell your teacher I let you go home early.
What's this? What are you boys doing?
I don't have an appointment with any large men --
I'm PRINCIPAL Skinner, yes. And how, may I ask, did you get past the hall monitors?
Stop!
I suppose you're all wondering where I've been. It all started a week ago. I was at my desk, revising and updating the school dress codes, when...
I was suddenly confronted by a gang of toughs acting on behalf of one Bart Simpson. Or so they said.
Get out!
To get my mind off that ugly confrontation I went home and began bundling my old newspapers. But suddenly the pile fell. I was trapped. Let this be a lesson to recycle frequently.
For the next week I stayed alive by eating my mother's delicious preserves and maintained my sanity by dribbling a nearby basketball with my one free hand. I made a game of it, seeing how many times I could bounce the ball in a day, then trying to break that record. Occasionally the police arrived to search my home.
I shouted until I was hoarse, but they couldn't hear me.
I'M IN HERE!!!
Finally I realized if I was ever going to get out of there, I would have to do it myself.
I formed a crude rocket from a discarded cigar tube. And remembering an experiment from my days as a fourth grade science teacher, I concocted a fuel from baking soda and the juice of discarded lemon wedges.
The rocket took off with a mighty blast of carbon dioxide, dragging behind it the end of a vacuum cleaner cord.
I grabbed on to the vacuum cleaner, pushed the cord retractor button and was on my way to freedom.
And that's my courageous story.
They called me old-fashioned for teaching the duck and cover. But who's laughing now?
Your attention please. This is Principal Skinner. Bart, this one's for you. Hello ma baby, hello ma honey, hello my ragtime gal... Send me a kiss by wire..
One... more... time! HELLO MA BABY... HELLO MA HONEY... HELLO MY RAGTIME GAL. DOUBLETIME, NOW. SEND ME A KISS BY WIRE...
Well, you're in for a whale of a show tonight. I'd like to point out that the doors are now locked, so you parents can't sneak out of the show after your own child has performed. Oh, and let me caution the people in the first five rows, you will get wet.
Oh well, make sure you return those chairs to the cafeteria, Kim. I'm not kidding.
Terrible, just terrible. You know, they seem to get worse every year.
Wonderful. You know, I think this is the best batch we've ever had. I really do. And now, here's Bart Simpson, The Boy of a Thousand Voices.
That young man just became the Boy of a Thousand Days Detention.
This act is over! Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to put this filth behind us, and let's all enjoy Lisa Simpson's rendition of "Stormy Leather -- ah, Weather."
That'll do.
Oh yes, of course. It's the reed.
Let's hear it for Lisa Simpson and her wacky sax.
He's a liar!
Now, boys and girls, let's welcome our special guest, Ted Carpenter from the Twirl King yo-yo company.
People... people... Allllll right. You know I can wait just as long as you. Knock it off!
No. Mmm... careful now...ooh... gee that one grazed my ear...
Oh.
Sweet vigilant puma. Principal of the mountains.
I saw some awful things in 'Nam, but you really have to wonder at the mentality that would desecrate a helpless puma. I never thought I'd say this, but the no-goodniks rule this school!
God, I could really use a half-day.
Now what is this all about?
Bart Simpson on the side of law and order? Has the world gone topsy-turvy?
Hm.
Bart, there are a lot of troublemakers in this school... and Lord knows I can't be everywhere at once.
Look, let's can the euphemisms, huh? No more bullspit. How would you like to be a hall monitor?
That's the meat of it, yes.
Oooh, now, you get to wear a sash...
I have never seen a good student take such a slide. Lisa, what are you rebelling against?
Bart, you're doing a bang-up job. You know, before there were some corridors of this school you'd just never go down. Now I feel safe anywhere.
Bart, the school is a police state. Students are afraid to sneeze. And I have you to thank. Come with me.
Yes Bart, whenever a teacher confiscates something it ends up here. Salacious halter-tops, complete collections of Mad, Cracked and the occasional issue of Crazy, and this fake plastic derriere.
Now, to show my gratitude, I want you to help yourself to an item of your choice.
Ooo, now, you be careful with that crossbow.
Forgery. So he didn't have leprosy.
Oh, Things have changed. There will be no mockery of your name, Mr. Glasscock.
Ladies and gentlemen, the unthinkable has happened. Some sick, twisted individual has stolen every teacher's edition in this school.
Please, please, don't panic! They can smell fear.
Oh now Mr. Glasscock, please reconsider.
Bart, the police haven't had any luck finding the teachers' editions.
We're going to have to re-order every book.
Oh, Bart, I'm not sure random locker searches are permitted by the Supreme Court...
Let's move.
Hmm...
Bah.
The books!
Oh, answers! Answers! Simpson, you've just saved the school one hundred and twenty dollars. Who's behind this monstrous crime?
I've been so blind. In retrospect, the signs all pointed to a rogue hall monitor.
D'oh. Now Bart, in light of your recent service to the school, I've decided to be lenient. Four hundred days detention.
All right, five hundred days.
Six hundred days.
Just think what we can buy with that money. History books that know how the Korean War came out. Math books that don't have that Base six crap in them.
And a state of the art detention hall, where children are held in place with magnets.
One eraser? Oh, I'm used to my government betraying me. I was in Nam. I served for three --
SHUDDUP!
Oh, it's a miracle no one was hurt.
Well, that tears it. Until you get a license and wear your own underwear, mister, you are suspended without pay.
I drove an all-terrain vehicle in Da Nang. I think I can handle it.
Otto. That's one palindrome you won't be hearing for awhile.
Off we go!
HE DRINKS AND HE CUSSES / HE STINKS UP THE BUSSES/HAIL TO THE BUS DRIVER, BUS DRIVER MAN! HA HA!
Dum de dum... There's an opening. Too late!... Nope... Nope... That'd be cutting it a little close.
Nonsense. One of our good citizens will slow down and wave me in.
Let me in! Let me in!
Yes, hail to the bus driver... Bus Driver Man!
Samantha I've always been suspicious of transfer students... Other principals try to unload problem cases that way... Lord knows I do.
Yeah sure, and they told me I'd get a big parade when I got back from 'Nam. Instead they spat on me. I can still feel it searing. So, now let's just see what the permanent record has to say, shall we?
Hmm... no detention... fairly good attendance record... Oh, I see you beat that bed wetting problem in the second grade.
Don't worry. They'll forget. Just like they forgot about me in that tiger cage for eighteen agonizing months. Every night I'd wake up screaming. Well, let's meet your classmates.
Attention class, I have a new student for you.
I think we should discuss this later, Edna. Now, it's never easy to come to a new school, so let's make her feel right at home. Please say a big elementary school hello to Samantha Stinky.
Oh, right. How embarrassing for you. Well, goodbye.
Attention, everyone. This is Principal Skinner. I trust you all remembered to bring in your implements of destruction.
Now let's trash this dump!
Somebody put a torch to these permanent records! Quickly now.
Attention students: please clear out your lockers into the waste baskets provided.
Hmmm, I haven't seen such unfettered hurly-burly since the fall of Saigon. Well, William, another school year gone by.
Well, back to work then. Make sure to give those toilets a good scrubbing. We want the old girls sparkling when I get back.
Gentlemen, it's just a small school carnival.
Well, so did you. You got an ex-Green Beret mad.
Copyright expired.
I don't recall authorizing this booth.
Now in a moment, we'll be raffling off our grand prize...
A ride on the famous Duff Beer Blimp!
But first, our second-prize winner, and the recipient of this handsome shoe buffer....... Ned Flanders!
And the winner of the blimp ride is... Homer Simpson!
Martin Prince, report to my office at once!
Uh, you've been flushing for twenty minutes. Is there a problem?
Very well, I'll continue to wait.
Well, I'm afraid classes may be canceled today.
We won't miss a minute of school, thanks to your father.
Bart, we'll do anything you want. Just call off your giant mechanical ants!
Lisa, I know I can trust you to inventory this Glee Club peanut brittle.
Now, I've gotta slash 40 percent out of the budget.
Science...
Ah, music and art.
What in blazes?!
Good Lord... That's a 900 number!
Listen to your mother, Lisa. I owe everything I have to my mother's watchful eye... and swift hand.
Oh, there's mother now. Watching me. What's that, mother? They have a right to be here. It's school business. I... Mother, that sailor suit doesn't fit anymore!
Attention everyone. This is Principal Skinner.
Some student -- possibly Bart Simpson -- has been circulating candy hearts featuring crude, off-color sentiments. Well let me tell you something, Valentine's Day is no joke...
Sending your chick a valentine, eh?
Johnny!
Johnny.
JOHNNY!!
First prize... first prize...
This orange drink is the only way to recoup our terrible losses from "Fire Drill Follies." I just don't know what went wrong.
Hmm. So mother was right -- it was my fault. Go ahead, water it down some more.
Good evening, everyone, and welcome to a wonderful evening of theater and picking up after yourselves.
We begin with a tribute to our lesser-known Presidents.
And now, our evening comes to an end...
... with a thorough re-telling of the life of George Washington.
Well Edna, for a school with no Asian kids, I think we put on a pretty darn good science fair.
Go-go ray?
Dah! What the...?
I'm disrupting the learning process... and I love it!
First prize!
Whoop. Shoe's untied.
Over, under, in and out, that's what shoe tying's all about.
Nooooo!
Lisa, every good scientist is half B.F. Skinner, and half P.T. Barnum. I don't think I need to see the other exhibits. First prize!
Batten down those cowlicks... straighten that part... uncross those eyes, Mister.
Oh, sorry Quigley.
Children, we've just been tipped off that Superintendent Chalmers is planning a surprise inspection. So let's clean up this pigsty!
On another topic, the following students have won mountain bikes: Bart Simpson...
Jimbo Jones...
Nelson Muntz...
You may pick the bikes up in Utility Basement B.
Fools! Whoops. Still on.
Sorry about the ruse, gentlemen. You're being swept under the rug for the Superintendent's visit. Enjoy!
Would the world judge me harshly if I threw away the key?
Wise council, William. But the potty talk adds nothing.
Superintendent Chalmers! Welcome!
So what's the word down at One School Board Plaza?
Very good. Back to the three R's.
Hm. What do you think of the banners?
They were the children's idea. I tried to stop them.
Yes, yes it is, sir.
May I interest you in a Jello brick, Sir? There's a grape in the center.
You're not made of stone... a brick and you're... made of stone...
Well let's pick one at random. How about that one?
No! No! Lisa Simpson!
Let's go.
No he said what's that rattle. It's about the heating duct.
I've had a cold.
Yes.
Well, you know what they say, sir. "Where there's no smoke, there's no fire."
NOOOOO!
No. But sir, he's a drunk.
If I could just...
There's no detention this time, Simpson. This is the end. You are expelled from Springfield Elementary!
Bart, I'm very impressed at the independent learning you've displayed here.
Yes. Anyway, as a reward for your studying, I've decided to welcome you back to our school. You'll be reunited with your chums, Nelson, Jimbo, Dol... Oh dear God!
Faster, Willie, faster!
Now we give them the bikes, no one sues.
Then we ride these bikes to Mexico -- and freedom, Willie! Freedom!
Mother, get an extra-special hug ready. I've bought you a new juicer!
Good Lord! Flu germs entering every orifice in my head.
"Prisoner 24601"... Why, I wore this for two years in a Viet Cong internment center. Never thought I'd see the old girl again.
Still fits.
It is, it really really is.
Hello...
GOODBYE...
Principal Seymour Skinner.
Good Lord! Dr. Doolittle is Chief Wiggum!
Who is that?
SWEET ADELEINE.
MY ADELEINE....
Mm hmm?
Only one question remains gentlemen. What do we call ourselves?
We need a name that's witty at first, but that seems less funny each time you hear it.
Perfect.
The Be Sharps.
Yes. Yes it is.
Oh, he's with his new girlfriend. The Japanese conceptual artist.
Gentlemen, US Magazine just came out with its "What's Hot and What's Not Issue."
We are not.
Well William, I'm back. So, how did you spend your summer?
I can't remember the last time we were all together.
Ba bum bum bum...
Hey, everybody. Let's go sing at the hospital! FOR WE'VE GOT...
Hello, Simpson. I'm riding the bus today because Mother hid my car keys to punish me for talking to a woman on the phone. She was right to do it.
Now I've gotten word that a child is using his imagination, and I've come to put a stop to it.
The only monster on this bus is a lack of proper respect for the rules.
Pull, Willie! Pull!
Gad Zooks!
Right or wrong, your behavior was still disruptive, young man. Perhaps spending the remainder of your life in a madhouse will teach you some manners.
Okay... I'll try.
I'm annoyed with you, Mother. Not just annoyed... Angry! I'm a grown man now! And I can run MY OWN LIFE!!
We're still going antiquing on Saturday, right, mother?
My God, they're naked!
Eat my shorts, young man.
I feel that you should shut up!
Damn! They're very slowly getting away.
What is it with you kids and that word? I'm going to shave you bald, young man, until you learn that hair is not a right, it's a privilege.
Oh don't worry, she'll hear about this.
Now, I uh hesitate to bring this up, but a number of cities have rejuvenated their economies with uh, legalized gambling.
Uh, there is an added bonus -- some of the revenue can go to help our under-funded public schools!
And special awards go to the two students who obviously had no help from their parents, Lisa Simpson and Ralph Wiggum.
Yes, of course you are.
Good Lord! My Stormin' Norman Commemorative Plates stolen... again.
I'm with you, Homer.
Uh-oh!
Meaning what exactly?
Any sign of the burglar yet?
How's that?
How's that?
And there she is: the world's largest cubic zirconia.
How ironic.
Oh, he's so charming!
Thank you, Edna, everyone. Now class... I wonder who among you can tell me what this is?
Class, instead of going to the box factory, today we'll be going to the... box factory.
Ohhh!
I'll handle this. Simpson! I'm giving you 'til the count of three to come out. One... two... three. I've done all I can do.
I'll do it, Bart.
Now wait just a minute. That wasn't discussed with me.
I know, Mother.
Uh, excuse me, is there an Orange Julius stand on this floor?
Well why don't I drink out of a toilet bowl?
I know Weinstein's parents were upset, Superintendent, but, but ah, I was sure it was a phony excuse. I mean, it sounds so made up: "Yom Kip-pur?"
I understand. Children, this is Principal Skinner...
Remain calm. There is a dog in the vents.
Willie, go into the vent and get him.
Grease yourself up and go in, you-you... guff-speaking work-slacker.
Good lord! It's coming up right behind him!
Children, teachers, back to your rooms! Uh-oh, whenever I get this upset, I get hiccups. Ooh, right on cue.
I ... can't ... take ... this .
Superintendent Chalmers, you didn't have to come all the way down here. Everything's under control.
Now, really I hardly think the children's appearance should --
Hmm?
I'm sorry, d-did you just call me a liar?
Oh. That's much worse.
Well, maybe it was for the best. Now I... I finally have time to do what I've always wanted: write the Great American Novel. Mine is about a futuristic amusement park where dinosaurs are brought to life through advanced cloning techniques!
I call it "Billy and the Clone-o-saurus!"
Well, let's see. Tide, Cheer, Bold, Biz, Fab, All, Gain, Wisk. I believe today I will try... Bold.
Bart! How are you? How's school?
It was? Well, then we should get together again! Uh, say Saturday, at my house. Do you know where I live?
Hmmm, a flaming bag, eh? Well, these new Italian loafers will make short work of it.
Hey!
That's not true. I can buy a new pair. No, I can't. I needed those. I really did.
Bum-ba-bum-bum! Ba-ba-ba-bum! Now a little more allegro than last time. Bart! Welcome! Can I offer you a Diet Caffeine-Free Dr. Pepper or an individual fruit cocktail cup?
Oh, that's my old unit from Vietnam. I was their Sergeant, they were my loyal troops.
That photo was taken shortly before I was shot in the back ... Which was very strange, because it was during a Bob Hope show. I was trying to get Joey Heatherton to put on some pants for God's sake.
No, Mother.
Ned Flanders actually eliminated detention and put the whole school on the honor system?
Oh, that place must be falling apart. Oh, mercy. Nobody's mentioned me, have they?
Yeah, yeah.
I thought you might like this restaurant, Bart. They'll make a pizza pie with the topping of your choice.
No, no, Luigi, I'd like one with two seats. I'll be dining with a friend tonight.
Hmm. They treat you real nice here.
"Dear Bart, your friendship during this difficult time will not be forgotten. However, I've decided to return to the only thing besides school that has ever given my life meaning -- I've re-enlisted in the United States Army. Sincerely, Sgt. Seymour Skinner."
Hmm. Yes, Colonel. Now, I understand it will be my duty to mold the new recruits into a well-disciplined, highly-trained infantry unit.
Wait, wait, wait, wait. Where did you pick up that filth?!
Yes, well, there will be no smut in my company. You're in this man's army to learn!
Howwww old?
WELL, THAT'S REAL GOOD, BUT NEEDS IMPROVEMENT.
Man on the range!! Change your trajectories!!!
Uh, I must admit, I do miss the school. And uh, frankly, the Army isn't quite as I remembered it.
Actually, it's exactly as I remembered it. I do want to come back, Bart, but it doesn't sound like Flanders is gonna get fired.
...Yes. Now you realize, if I become Principal again, we can no longer be friends. Unless you become a good student.
Well, we'll always have the laun-dro-mat.
What's he doing here?
Yeah, well one question remains. How do I get out of the army?
Done and done. And I mean done.
Nothing!
Dirksen, tuck in your shirt. Jaffee, spit out that gum.
I guess. Thanks, Bart.
Oh, mercy.
"Please excuse my handwriting. I busted whichever hand it is I write with. Signed, Mrs. Simpson." You were right to be suspicious, Edna. To the crime lab.
Hmm, inconclusive.
I wish more students had agreed to these electronic tracking implants. We only had one volunteer.
You'd better answer him, Lisa. He's a bad man.
What are you laughing about?
We did not! Now where's Bart? You better tell me!
If I were a truant boy out for a good time I'd be right here. The Springfield Natural History Museum.
You're mine, Simpson.
Why, there are no children here at the Four 'H' Club either! Am I so out of touch? No. It's the children who are wrong.
A Spoor!
Hmm. His brand of gum--Doublemint. Trying to double your fun, eh, Bart? Well, I'll double your detention. I wish someone was around to hear that. And so we enter end game.
Oh, he's close. I can taste his fear.
What the...?
Bart Simpson, I know you cut school yesterday. And as soon as I can prove it, I'm shipping you off to the Christian Military Reform School.
I know you can read my thoughts, Bart. Just a little reminder: if I find out you cut class, your ass is mine. Yes, you heard me. I think words I would never say.
I can't wait 'til the sentencing part. That's where I really shine.
Bart Simpson, for the heinous crime of hooky, I sentence you to a lifetime of hard labor in the cafeteria.
If the jury is deadlocked, they're put up in a hotel together so they can't communicate with the outside world.
It's when the jury can't agree on a verdict.
A conjunction meaning "in the event that" or "on condition that."
Justice is not a frivolous thing, Simpson. It has little, if anything, to do with a disobedient whale. Now let's vote.
You know, we're kind of like the original "Odd Couple." You're the messy one and I'm...
Oh yes, very well.
You're stealing a table?
Ah. Is that my necktie you're wearing?
I knew it! I knew you'd slip up sooner or later, Simpson.
Quiet. I need this.
Bart, I'm impressed with what you did in there. You testified for the Quimby boy even though it was putting your own head in a noose. On the other hand, you skipped school.
I'm a small man in some ways, Bart. A small, petty man. Three months detention.
Wait a minute, Bart.
Make that four months detention.
He's a horrible excuse for an educator.
Ooh, a fight.
What a rip off.
I hardly think it's fair to be charged full price. I'm up to my knees in the original cast of M*A*S*H.
Uh, well, as a matter of fact, my refrigerator wasn't running. You spared me quite a bit of spoilage. Thank you, anonymous young man.
Door to door sugar? What a marvelous idea! What's that, mother? I'm just talking to the sugar man. Mother, I'm a big boy. I can do as I wish. Excuse me.
Thanks a lot, Simpson! Now I'm grounded!
Ah, Diorama-rama. My favorite school event next to Hearing Test Thursday.
Yes, yes. Very good wrath. Ah, let's see, our foreign exchange student, Uter, has chosen "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory". Eh... But this is just an empty box!
Bart, stop creating a diversion and get out of here!
Mm, I can't wait to see this. Be ready with the ribbon.
Allison, is this supposed to be some kind of joke?!
Oh is that so, young lady? Well, where is this phantom diorama?
Ah, at least have the guts to take the blame, girl. You're only compounding your folly by lying about it.
Young lady, cow hearts belong in a butcher's window, not the classroom. Well, maybe in an older student's biology classroom, but that's none of my business. Elementary school is where I wound up and it's too late to do anything about that. Frankly, I'm starting to regret skipping you ahead.
Oh, well, that changes everything. Let's have a look. Get the ribbon ready.
Oh. A little sterile... no real insight. What do you think, Miss Hoover?
This has been a very disappointing day. All right, on to Lisa Simpson.
Well, this doesn't deserve to win.
Oh noW, we're into the dregs. Here's Ralph Wiggum's entry.
Prepackaged "Star Wars" characters still in their display box?! Are those the limited edition action figures?
Why, it's Luke, and Obie-Wan... and my favorite, Chewie. They're all here! What do you think?
We have a winner!
Now, as a special send-off and a way to say "Gung hay fat choy" to our visiting Chinese principals, Bart Simpson has promised us a fireworks display!
Now, students, I want you to be on your best behavior for this carefully-choreographed media event. Now this means there is to be no wising-off, no face-making, and no grass-eating. This means you, Ralph.
Bart, by special request of the Mayor's office, you are going to be left back.
Well, yes... but, not for four or five years. Bart, you're going to kindergarten.
Over here, Simpson! The detention room is dangerously overcrowded, so you'll be serving your time in the cafeteria.
Yes, you should have thought of that before you made that paper airplane.
This overcrowding in detention is becoming critical. It's a powder keg waiting to go off in an explosion of unacceptable behavior.
Wouldn't it be wonderful if there were some sort of common solution to both our problems?
Jimbo, this is by far the worst...
Hmmm.
Hmmm. Uh, Jimbo, why don't you "assist" Lunchlady Doris in the kitchen.
Well might we.
Hmmm. Well, perhaps I ought to let you folks in on a secret. Do you remember me telling Jimbo Jones that I'd make something of him one day?
Now, that's your third helping, young man. It's making you fat and soft... and tender. Hmmm... Uh, you just cut in line, didn't you? Report to detention, Uter.
Oh about seven minutes a pound should do it.
Oh relax, kids. I've got a gut feeling Uter's around here somewhere. After all, isn't there a little Uter in all of us? In fact, you might even say we just ate Uter and he's in our stomachs right now. Wait. Scratch that.
Easy there, young man. You'll only make yourself tired and stringy.
Now to check on the free-range children.
I'm going to enjoy devouring you, Bart Simpson. Yes... I believe I'll start, as you've so often suggested, by eating your shorts.
Congratulations, Simpson. You just fell for our sting and won yourself three months detention. There's no such thing as Scotchtoberfest.
I smelled some marijuana smoke in Vietnam.
That's the collection money!
All right, first academic alert: Wiggum, Ralph...
Attention. This is Principal Skinner, your principal, with a message from the principal's office. All students please proceed immediately to an assembly in the Butthead Memorial Auditorium. Dammit I wish we hadn't let the students name that one.
Children, the times, they are a-becoming quite different. Test scores are at an all time low. So I've come up with these "Academic Alerts." You will receive one as soon as your grades start to slip in any subject. This way, your parents won't have to wait until report card time to punish you.
No, no Ralph. This means you're failing English.
Muntz, Nelson. You're failing history, geography, and math. But ah, you're doing quite well in Home-Ec.
Simpson...Lisa.
I hardly ever let Mother fight for me anymore!
Huh, this has nothing to do with you, Simpson. I have many, many issues with my beloved smother -- mother.
He will pay the ultimate price.
WHO ROBS CAVE FISH OF THEIR SIGHT? /
The Grand Exalted Leader requests a moment of your time. Class dismissed.
And now, to top off our most propane-explosion-free Science Week ever, our grand finale! The launching of a weather balloon.
Hurrah for science, woo? I can't say I approve of the woo, but the hurrah was quite heartening. Release the balloon.
Nooooooo!
Whoever brings down that balloon doesn't have to learn fractions!
Careful children, that's my car.
Destroy that balloon.
It won't come down for months. Curse the man who invented helium. Curse Pierre Jules Cesar Janssen! Now to find out who did this.
Bart? Empty your pockets.
Hmmm... blueprints of the dummy, ... notarized photos of you making the dummy... and an alternate wording for the banner: "Buttzilla."
I am going to punish you for this, Bart. And it won't just be a simple caning this time.
Because you have impeded science, you must now aid science. Yes. Starting tomorrow, you will assist me with my amateur astronomy. Taking down coordinates, carrying equipment and so forth. Four-thirty in the morning.
Ah, there's nothing more exciting than science. You get all the fun of sitting still, being quiet, writing down numbers, paying attention... Science has it all!
Yes, but you won't be looking through it. I forbid it. But you don't need a telescope to enjoy astronomy, Bart. There are all the constellations you've heard so much about.
There's Orion... the Swan...the chariot race...
Well, you do have to use your imagination. Look, there's the Three Wise Men.
Whoever discovers them. I've been hoping I could find something that would be named after me.
Once. But by the time I got to a phone, my discovery had already been reported by Principal Kohoutek. I got back at him though. Him and that little boy of his. Anyway... that's why I always keep a cellular phone next to me. Now, this morning we're gonna be mapping a small square of sky that's thought to be empty. It's my hope that it's not.
Just write down my findings as I give them to you. Six hours, nineteen minutes, right ascension, fourteen degrees, twenty-two minutes declination... No sighting.
Six hours, nineteen minutes, right ascension, fourteen degrees, twenty-three minutes declination... No sighting.
Six hours, nineteen minutes right ascension, fourteen degrees fifty-eight minutes declination... No sighting. Did you get that one, Bart?
Good... My stars! Give me the phone! Quick!
No, no there's no need for that... it's already named after me.
It's coming pretty close to the ground. Maybe I can catch it. Don't touch the telescope, Bart. Even a slight change in elevation can destroy a whole morning's work.
Ah got you, my rumpy doppelganger.
I've got it! What are you doing? Give me that phone.
NOOOOOOOOoooooooo!
NOOOOOOOOoooooooo!
NOOOOOOOOoooooooo!
I am.
About the ox?
Attention students. It's time once again to choose a gym class for the coming term. So let's all prove how adult we can be by filing to the gym in a calm and orderly manner. Even though it's first-come first-serve, and the most popular sports fill up fast.
There is only one class left, but it happens to be the "coolest" one of all.
Well you should have gotten here earlier.
You're gonna have to work hard to win this crowd over. Most of them are here as part of detention.
Mm hm. We even bussed in troublemakers from other schools.
I'm telling you people the earth revolves around the sun.
We've been invited to the wedding of our only graduate to read at an adult level.
It'd be nice to have some companionship when mother goes out on dates.
Edna, you know they just cut the school's budget. Besides, if I had the money, I'd fix the exhaust leak in the back. Frankly, I think it's causing some of our low test scores.
All right, the battlefield is just a half mile ahead. Begin braking procedure!
Otto, why don't you get some more gas. Here's the 'credit card.'
...and a mint for afterwards.
Five dollars a child?! Last year it was free.
Bu..but we don't have that kind of money. In fact, no school could afford to...
He thinks he's so hot ever since he swept the "princi" awards. Those things are rigged.
All right children, switch.
Run children!
Start the bus Otto!! Start the bus!!
God bless the man who invented permission slips.
Posh. Shredded newspapers add much needed roughage and essential inks. Besides, you didn't notice the old gym mats.
That's it!
Oh, c'mon, Edna. We both know these children have no future.
It still points, doesn't it?
Well, the kids have to learn about Tek War sooner or later.
She did?
We'll see about that. Simpson, I always thought you were sneaky and manipulative, but now I see you're really a very sensitive little boy.
Aww.
Teachers. You don't have the guts to strike.
Attention. This is an emergency broadcast. All is well in the school. My authority as principal is total -- Hey, gimme that.
Well, I hardly think it's fair to...
Boo!
Yeah, in a dream world. We have a very tight budget. To do what she's asking, we'd have to raise taxes.
It'll cost you.
I don't agree to that.
Well children, I don't know what you did to all those substitutes, but it's going to stop now. Leopold?
Me? Go to my office? It's highly irregular, but all right...
Let us out, Bart! / This is not funny, come on! / Bart, let us out right now!
For the love of God, let us out!
Come on! Or you are sooo sorry.
Come on! Or you are going to be very, very sorry.
What's the point? There's no more money. Unless you've got some magic new source of revenue.
Prisoners in our own school. Hey...
This was a great way to make extra money. Renting out our cloakrooms to the overcrowded prison system.
And as a bonus some of our more troublesome students might be scared straight.
Superintendant Chalmers, I'd like you to meet our new school nurse, Lunchlady Doris.
Well, in many cases the floor is the best... oh look! Here comes Lumpy, the school snake!
Oh, Lord.
Now I have learned that most of the orchestra is having their appendixes removed. So without further ado, I give you the remnants of the Springfield Elementary School Orchestra.
On saxophone, Lisa Simpson.
On triangle, Martin Prince.
And with a flute up his nose, Ralph Wiggum.
They will be playing Stars and Stripes Forever -- hopefully not forever.
I didn't burn down the school. It was the butterfly, I tell you! The butterfly!
Yes, indeed there is. There's an inflatable bath pillow that mother and I both enjoy. She claimed it was her day to use it. I maintain she was mistaken. We quarreled. Later, as I prepared to bathe, I noticed to my horror, that "someone" had slashed the pillow.
Well, I could send it back to Taiwan for repair, but why should I have to? I've done nothing wrong. And I don't give permission for my face to be on TV. I want it blurred.
Ah, is there nothing so intoxicating as the school hallway at early morn?
Hmm. School normally doesn't smell so... rank.
Ahh. Washbasin fresh. That funk must be coming from one of the classrooms.
Poor fellow. Crushed by his own water bottle...
Willie, sometime over the holiday weekend, the beloved Grade Four gerbil, er, Superdude, lost his life. I need you to air out the classroom and give Superdude a proper burial.
My Lord. Such destruction.
Superintendent Chalmers! How are you going?
I-I-I-I-I...
Thank you, Superdude.
Superintendent, we made the front page today!
Hm, it's an unrelated article.
Yes. Now, to re-direct our conversation slightly, I had a few ideas on how to spend this oil money.
Oh mercy. Seriously though, before we draw up the budget, I believe the students and faculty have a few suggestions...
More rubber stamps.
That's odd. I don't have a secretary, or an intercom. But send him in.
Mr. Burns...
It was naive of you to think I would mistake this town's most prominent 104 year-old man for one of my elementary school students.
That hotel's a dump, and your monopoly is pathetic. The school's oil well is not for sale. Particularly to a black-hearted scoundrel like yourself!
Please don't waste those.
Today, Springfield Elementary embarks on a new era: an era of unbridled spending where petro-dollars will fuel our wildest educational fantasies. These young minds will enjoy every academic advantage... ...until they enter Springfield High School, which has no oil well.
Fine. Now, to switch on our oil pump for the very first time, here's our top student, Lisa Simpson.
I'm afraid we've got no legal recourse against Mr. Burns and his slant- drilling operation. The oil belongs to whoever pumped it first.
No.
In fact, to pay for the construction, and operation, and demolition of our new derrick, the school will have to eliminate all non-essential programs: music...
And maintenance.
He robbed the school of financial security!
Shelbyville.
Hum-m-m. Now-now let, let... me... let me think.
Now, I did - I did go to the town meeting with the intention of ambushing Mr. Burns. When it adjourned, I rushed to the lavatory to apply my camouflage makeup...
Blast! I took mother's makeup kit by mistake.
Superintendent Chalmers!
Oh yes. But, anything else he tells you is a filthy lie.
Students, I have an announcement. One of your favorite comic book heroes, Radio Man...
Strange. I shouldn't have been able to hear that. Anyway, a Hollywood studio has decided to film the Radioactive Man movie here in Springfield.
And they will be holding auditions to find a local youngster to play Fallout Boy.
Oh, and the air conditioner will be fixed this afternoon.
What kind of parents would permit such a lapse in scalpel hygiene?
Lisa Simpson, report to the principal's office for head lice inspection.
Sweet Georgia Brown! Something is rotten at the Simpson house.
PLEASE TAKE MY HA-A-A-ND!
Uh-oh. Two independent thought alarms in one day. The students are over stimulated. Willie, remove all the colored chalk from the classrooms.
Good morning class. A certain agitator -- for privacy's sake let's call her Lisa S. -- No, that's too obvious. Uh, let's say L. Simpson -- has raised questions about certain school policies. So in the interest of creating an open dialogue, sit silently and watch this film.
Now as a special treat courtesy of our friends at the Meat Council, please help yourselves to this tripe.
Our next budget item: Twelve dollars for doorknob repair.
Children, I couldn't help monitoring your conversation. There's no mystery about Willie. Why, he simply disappeared... Now, let's have no more curiosity about this bizarre cover-up.
Wheel him out quietly. It's best the children don't see him.
Oh, just get it out of here!
Not into the kindergarten!
...Recharge fire extinguishers. This is a free service of the fire department.
Willie, please, Mr. Van Houten has the floor.
As I was saying, my yearly evaluation couldn't've come at a better time.
So we meet again, Mad Magazine...
The year was 1968. We were on re-con in a steaming Mekong delta. An overheated private removed his flak jacket, revealing a T-shirt with an iron-on sporting the Mad slogan, "UP WITH MINI-SKIRTS." Well, we all had a good laugh, even though I didn't quite understand it.
But our momentary lapse of concentration allowed "Charlie" to get the drop on us. I spent the next three years in a POW camp, forced to subsist on a thin stew made of fish, vegetables, prawns, coconut milk and four kinds of rice. I came close to madness trying to find it here in the States, but they just can't get the spices right...
Hmm... Oh. I'm going to have to think about that. Meanwhile, wear this home.
Several days ago, a violent riot erupted, incited by an inflammatory T-shirt slogan.
No! No! Now don't try to remember what that slogan was.
To ensure that this frenzied dance of destruction is never repeated, I have decided, starting Monday, all students will be required to wear uniforms.
All right. Pick your size, extra-small or extra-large. We've got both. No pushing now... I... What?... Oh. I've just been informed we've run out of extra-large.
Ahhh, these uniforms are a godsend. Horseplay is down 40 percent. Youthful exuberance has been cut in half, and high spirits are at an all-time low.
I love that sound.
Well, it is starting to rain, but I can hardly be blamed for that, can I?
I don't understand it. I got them at the same place I buy Mother's dresses. Good Lord! Mother's in the park!
Mmm. It's awfully loud.
But now the ties are motionless. And those in back are virtually inaccessible! Well, it's a moot point, as I have only one tie to begin with. I believe I'll pass.
Have you sold that tie rack yet?
I'll take it.
I'll take that.
Mother?! Superintendent Chalmers?!!
What I wouldn't give for something to interrupt this awkward moment.
That'll do nicely.
Now as you all know, Springfield's 200th birthday is only a week away. Every class will do its part to make our local bicentennial just as memorable as our National Bicentennial. Of course, you children are too young to remember that -- with the possible exception of Kearney.
He's embiggened that role with his cromulent performance!
Well, I see no way of settling this. I say we imprison them for the duration of our Bicentennial.
This is highly unorthodox!
Ah, Spring Break in Hong Kong. Custom-made suits at slave-labor prices...
Good lord, they've got this all wrong.
Yes, this is Principal Seymour Skinner.
I'm afraid there are some problems with my tickets. I asked for a center seat, not an aisle seat. I specifically requested not to have the kosher meal. And I booked the flight leaving Saturday morning, not Friday morning!
G.M. Chrysler!! I can't afford that! But I can't close the school a day early just to suit my vacation. Or can I? Think, Seymour, think...
Yes, Go to Work with Your Parents Day! Tomorrow, you will learn by doing and apply your knowledge of fractions and gym to real-world situations!
What the...?
Ah, Superintendent Chalmers, welcome. I hope you're prepared for an unforgettable luncheon.
Oh, ye Gods! My roast is ruined!
But what if... I were to purchase fast food and disguise it as my own cooking? Ooh, delightfully devilish, Seymour.
Superintendent! I was just... eh... stretching my calves on the windowsill! Isometric exercise. Care to join me?
Ah... oh, that isn't smoke. It's steam. Steam from the steamed clams we're having. Mmmm, steamed clams.
Superintendent, I hope you're ready for mouth-watering hamburgers!
No, no. I said "steamed hams." That's what I call hamburgers.
Yes. It's a regional dialect.
Uh, Upstate New York.
Oh, not in Utica, no. It's an Albany expression.
Oh, no. Patented Skinnerburgers. Old family recipe.
Yes.
Y... you know... one thing I sho... Excuse me for one second.
Ahh. Well, that was wonderful. A good time was had by all. I'm pooped.
Aurora borealis.
Yes.
No.
No, Mother, it's just the Northern Lights.
I phoned ahead.
Young man, the only thing we exchanged for you is our national dignity.
Willie, please. The children want to pick on someone their own size.
Well, I... I lied -- it's for me.
First rate work, Bart. This universe you've created is even more impressive than Martin's milk carton ukulele. Willie, you can throw out the other projects, we have a winner!
'Bye.
Oh, I hope I didn't miss the floor show...
Is Roxanne back?
Did she, uh, get my flowers?
I... Hello, Bart.
This is the National Air and Space Museum, isn't it?
That's true, but I was only in there to get directions on how to get away from there.
Mother!
Ah, there's no justice like angry mob justice.
Mmm-hmm. There were kicks and everything.
Uh, Superintendent Chalmers! What's wrong?!
Oh... oh, good. This will sound crazy but at first I... I thought I'd enraged you again.
What?! What?!
I've always admired car owners. And I hope to be one myself, as soon as I finish paying off Mother. She insists I pay her retroactively for the food I ate as a child.
Sir, if you'll just stop yelling at me, I'm sure I can find a replacement...
I'll just...
Uh-oh!
This way!
Ah, yes. Uh, take a good look at him, Nelson, cause that's where you're headed.
After you claim your stolen merchandise, go directly to Mr. Muntz for an apology.
Oh, you think this stolen 'H' is a laugh riot, don't you? Well, I'll tell you something that's not so funny: right now, Superintendent Chalmers is at home crying like a little girl!
I guess it is a little funny... Nonetheless, I will find the culprit. We'll start with, oh, I don't know... Bart Simpson!
Balderdash. I'll just stick my head right in and --
Half a dozen eggs?!
Well, that would be the complete dozen... All right. Rather than tempt fate, I'll move along now.
So we reach the bottom of the barrel: Nelson Muntz.
The cold, hard process of elimination places the 'H' squarely in your locker!
Damn! Dang! Darn!
A principal's ransom in stolen goods! Well sir, who's "haw-hawing" now, hmm?
All right, Mr. Smartenheimer, that does it!
First, you're going to give back everything you've stolen, then I'm sentencing you to one week of the lowest, most degrading work known to man: janitorial work.
Great Barrier Reef! We're under attack!
Who's out there? Give me your names so I can tell the police!
Go back to bed, Mother! I've got it under control. Listen, you crumb-bums, if you think I'm impressed, I am not!
I... ah, brandishing your buttocks is only getting me angrier!
No, Mother, don't look out the window!
Thank you.
Yes, I am sure. Sure as sure can be.
I believe it was a boking accident.
I have to go now.
Boy for sale! Boy for sale!
Only here and in Mississippi.
Hmmm. These campaign buttons are all partisan. Don't you have any neutral ones? "May The Better Man Win?"... "Let's Have a Good, Clean Election?" That sort of thing?
Missy, you just talked yourself right out of a sale.
Why, it's Lisa Simpson! And look what she's doing!
Edna!
And finally, the bake sale to raise money for the car wash has been canceled, due to confusion. Well, that concludes this morning's announcements. I'm Seymour Skinner and stand by to resume learning in five, four, three, two, one...
'Mind if I sit down?
I, I don't follow you.
Well, this party is certainly a break in my routine. You know, normally I spend my Saturdays carefully laying out my clothes for the following week, and then I stroll down to the car wash to see if Gus is there...
Is this how you imagined your life, Edna?
To poor decisions.
It's a party, mother. I was invited.
Help me, Edna.
More tea, Edna?
Huh. I think we both know the answer to that... a lucky boy.
Oh? Well, I've always admired your tart honesty and ability to be personally offended by broad social trends.
Mmm-hmm. Very much. And your laugh...
Oh, the heck with it!
Mmmmm.
Good gravy!
Bart Simpson, report to the Principal's Office immediately!
Now, Bart... son... I don't know what you think you saw, but, uh, let me assure you...
Is it too late to say that?
And there are those who might try to use it against us for their own advantage.
Like you for... Bart, if life has taught me one lesson repeatedly, it's to know when I'm beaten. Let's talk deal.
What do you say, son? You keep our secret and some other student can inherit your gloomy, windblown future.
This is a great day for forbidden love.
Mmmm. This dessert is exquisite. What do you call it?
Oh, of course. I'm sorry, I... I don't get out to restaurants much.
You know, I always thought I'd fall for a woman just like Mother... even though I didn't want to. And now that I haven't, I've discovered what true happiness can be, Edna.
I'm afraid I already swallowed it while you were talking.
Mmm... / Oh... / / ETC.
Good morning, students. Way to go there, Wendell. There's Ralph -- he knows the score. Jimbo, how's that hat today? Janey, Janey, bo-faney!
Bart Simpson to the Principal's Office. Post haste.
Bart, so good to see you! I have a little favor to ask you.
I'd like you to give this note to Edna when you get back to class. I don't think I have to tell you it's for her eyes only.
I hear reading...
No. It went just as we planned, except they confiscated my thermos of cola at the door.
Uh, why, we're... We're, uh, on a... a, uh Uh, uh, what do you call... uh, field trip.
Yes! He's, uh...
I'll... I'll... I'll go get him right now. Car keys, car keys, car keys.
Just enjoy the movie. It has Tom Berenger.
Mother doesn't approve of me dating, so I need you to keep her busy for a few hours while Edna and I sneak out.
Mrs. Krabappel, Bart has something he wants to say to you.
Bart!
Um... Um.. School dismissed.
Superintendent Chalmers!
Uh, right here, sir!
Well... I'm sorry, but, ah, I can't give up the woman I love.
Mmm-hmm, it's Mr. Skinner now. I'm just a man. Bart, I want to apologize for the awkward position Edna and I put you in. Your... your help made our love possible. I don't know what we'll do without you. Well, so long.
What are you getting at?
Okay, Bart.
Okay, Edna.
I... No, wait! We're not going anywhere. I'm going to do what Bart should have told me to do a long time ago!
Attention, Springfield. We have barricaded ourselves in the school and are not coming down until our demands are met.
No! You get off of my school!
Oh, Edna, I hope this siege never ends.
I'll get it. Talk to me.
We're not coming down until our jobs are reinstated and you acknowledge and celebrate our love.
Well, this is it.
I'm going to go out there, and tell every man, woman and child that I love Edna Krabappel.
I... have a bomb.
It was a good idea, Bart. But it's just not working.
What are you people talking about?
This is absurd. I did not have relations in that closet. And the fact is, I haven't... ...uh...
Well, everyone, the fact is: I haven't ever had relations. I am a virgin.
Uh -- Hold on, Bart. May we have a word with you?
We can't continue on like this, trying to build a private relationship in public -- the whole town watching our every move with a fine-tooth comb.
That's why I love elementary school, Edna. The children believe anything you tell them.
What a load of garbage! I'm ecstatic. With the money from this, we're within striking distance of our trip to Albany.
Super. Now, let's give a big Junior Achievers welcome to our guest speaker -- I know he can teach us a lot about business -- Mr. C. Montgomery Burns!
Well, I'm going to take advantage of this rare opportunity, even if you children aren't interested. Uh... Which do you think is more important: hard work or stick-to-it-iveness?
Monty Burns, everybody!
A half ton of newspaper and all we get is seventy-five cents? Huh, that won't even cover the gas I used to go to the store to buy the twine to tie up the bundles.
Oh! Well!
Sorry, kids, the trip to Albany is off, and there's to be no more recycling.
Reverend, this is Principal Skinner. I'm facing a crisis and I didn't know to whom to turn.
Mother's gone too far. She's put cardboard over her half of the television. We rented "Man Without a Face" -- I didn't even know he had a problem. What should I do?
Um, any particular passage?
All right. Thanks anyway.
Well, I'm not principal of the line, mother.
I still don't understand, Clancy. Why give up your job as a small town police chief to set up a detective shop in New Orleans?
For massive corruption.
Yeah. As for me, I was born and bred here in the mean streets of "N'Awlins." Oh, sure, I left briefly to take that principal's job in Springfield, but in my heart I... I've always been a small-time hustler.
Hmm. Looks like you've already got an enemy, Chief. Y'know, folks 'round here don't much care for law and order types.
Will you stop saying that.
Well, to be honest, Chief, I haven't lived in New Orleans for 42 years. Although... according to an article I read in Parade Magazine, a criminal by the name of "Big Daddy" runs this town.
Lucky for you, this was just a warning gator. The next one won't be corked.
Oh, Chief? Your boy's been kidnapped.
Big Daddy's trademark calling card. See, it's right here inside the skull.
It's me, Chief. I'm on the other extension.
Eh, it's not really a party town. Though if I remember correctly, they occasionally hold a function called Mardi... something.
Ah, it's not rented, Chief -- it's stolen. That's the Louisiana Governor's mansion. It's been missing for eight months.
Oh, yeah? Well that makes two of us.
He's gradually getting away, Chief.
Better start eating, kid.
Of course we could make things more challenging, Lisa, but then the stupider students would be in here complaining... furrowing their brows in a vain attempt to understand the situation...
Edna, your tears say more than words ever could.
Oh, yeah.
I have it going on.
Oh, let the good times roll.
Yes Mother.
Seven o'clock Friday night, Mother. Time for our weekly silhouette.
Oh, but you love silhouette night! And then we go through your bird book and make up silly captions and -- Mother, why are you all dressed up?
Mmm, what's so special about tonight?
Why are we stopping at my school, Mother? What does it say on that sign?
Oh Mother, you are still the master of deception.
Oh! What the -- an enjoyment buzzer?!
Oh, thank you. What a wonderful night to share with the people and the town that I love. I have never been happier or prouder to be Seymour Skinner.
Skinner!
Mother!
No...No he's, he's not crazy. It's true: I'm, I'm an impostor. That man is the real Seymour Skinner.
It's true. I was in his platoon... But they said you were killed on that scouting mission!
Well, obviously it isn't. My real name is Armin Tamzarian.
I've never been happier or prouder to be Seymour Skinner. But these last few days as that hot-headed rogue Armin Tamzarian have taught me a thing or two. You know, maybe I've been a little too "uptight" in the past. Well, from now on you're gonna to see a new Seymour Skinner--
Yes, Mother.
Welcome kindergartners. I'm Principal Sinner... Skinner.
Well, that's it. I've lost them forever. Now I'd like to introduce you to Lunchlady Doris, who will serve you healthy, nutritious meals...
...Miss Phipps, the school nurse, who will provide ointments and unguents...and Jimbo, the school bully who will administer noogies and nipple twisters.
Young man, I can assure you my posterior is nothing more than flesh, bone, and that metal plate I got in 'Nam.
Now, I want you to knock off that potty talk right now.
You listen to me, son. You've just started school, and the path you choose now may be the one you follow for the rest of your life. Now what do you say?
All right, I'll eat--eat your shorts?!
Buttman!?
Hey, now. That's uncalled for.
Ooo... Ow!
Hmm. I knew this day would come.
Attention. All honor students will be rewarded with a trip to an archeological dig!
Conversely, all detention students will be punished with a trip to an archeological dig.
I must admit, it is rather exciting. And -- Why, look -- here's something right here!
It appears to be some sort of rock. I-- Oh, no, it's just a clump of dirt. Even so, my heart is pounding like a kettle drum. I'd better sit down for a moment.
Well, this was a big bust. Come on, kids. Let's go home to our mothers.
Oh, Edna, my sweet buttercup, you read my mind. Just, uh, give me twenty minutes, or so, to finish these tardy slips.
Then what happened to Johnny D?
My high school sweetheart was killed in a drag racing accident.
That's what Debbie Sue said...
Yes. Something wild.
It's the Simpsons.
And then some.
All right, Simpson, be honest with me. Is it actually possible to win this game?
Hot dog! Let's go!
I'm trying, Mother. It's hard!
You've failed at everything you've ever tried.
I could've done a lot worse, Mother.
Okay, delegates. You leave tomorrow for the statewide model U.N., so this is our last chance to bone up. And bone we will.
Finland, let's see that native dance.
Smile more... Work that pelvis... No, too much smile... Sit down.
Poland, tell us about your nation's achievements.
No, no, no, no, no. Young man, you need to do some serious boning.
O-okay, Libya. Exports.
Nice touch.
Uh, I'd like to, but I'm afraid he has diplomatic immunity.
Order, order! Do you kids want to be like the real U.N., or do you just want to squabble and waste time?
Okay, kids. Otto's in charge. Remember, Otto, we're trusting you with our greatest natural resource, the school bus.
It's my allowance, Mother, and I'll burn it the way I want.
I'll take that.
Attention, children.
Uh, over here.
Oh, for the love of... The doorway!
We have a very special visitor today. But he's no ordinary visitor. In fact, uh, you might say...
Thank you, Bart. All right, come in. They know.
Kids, this is Robby the Automaton.
Children, help! He's killing me!
Young man, the school dress code specifically forbids the wearing of earrings... unless you're of gypsy extraction.
Oh, really? Prove it.
Nuh-uh, that's a vampire! But, uh, they're also covered. Carry on.
Children, I'll be frank. In the event of nuclear war, we can only save our best and brightest.
Therefore, space in the fallout shelter will be reserved for Lisa Simpson, Martin Prince, our championship kickball team, and Sherri, but not Terri.
Heh.
Ohh, Edna, you're certainly looking lovely tonight. Is that a new green sweater?
It's pure.
Lisa, Channel 6 is launching a children's news program. And they've asked me to select an outstanding student to be anchorchild.
Lisa, I've selected you to be that child anchor.
Hmf. All right, if you're so smart, tell me who I selected to be lunch room monitor.
Take your sash and go.
You mean plan B?!
Here we go again...
Truant ball, eh? I'll help you.
Attention, please. I need a volunteer for a thankless chore.
Shall I assume the only hand in the air is Lisa Simpson's? Thank you, Lisa.
We have a new student, Lisa. And I want you to show her the works. The lunchroom, the tree...
But when you get to the trophy case, give her some cock 'n bull story. They're out for cleaning, or whatever.
Lisa, I'd like you to meet Alex Whitney.
Take it outside.
Ah, I see the trophies are still out for cleaning. Eh, Lisa?
Milhouse, lower those eyebrows! And the other one.
Oh, Lisa, I was hoping I could count on you again to spearhead our annual school-wide apple-pick.
Uh, you forgot apple-bobbing.
Well, uh, we've never had a dance before. Lisa, you'd be doing all the work. What do you think?
Well, there wouldn't be ponies.
School dance?! I didn't approve any school dance!
Oh, yes, yes. Uh, carry on.
Lisa, I have to run home. I need you to keep an eye on the dance.
Normally I wouldn't ask, but it's an emergency. Mother has a Junebug cornered in the basement and she needs me to finish it off. C'mon, chop chop.
I know what that means, young lady.
Now, uh, people, there's been some confusion about our bird-sighting rules. You cannot count birds that you've seen at the zoo, on stamps, or in dreams.
Good heavens! I'm very glad you brought those in, Bart.
I'll just get those killed and you can be on your way.
My civic duty, that's what.
Mm-hm. It's a vicious ovoraptor. It feasts on bird eggs, and lays its own eggs in the nest. The unsuspecting mother bird cares for them until the babies hatch and devour her, too.
It's already wiped out the Dodo, the Cuckoo, and the NeNe. And it has nasty plans for the booby, the titmouse, the woodcock, and the titpecker.
Well, the one thing that mystifies me is how a Bolivian lizard made it to Springfield.
No, they might escape and breed. The law is very clear on this: they must be exterminated as quickly and as gruesomely as possible.
All right. I'll give you a moment. That will give us time to prepare for the splatter.
Okay, that's exactly one moment. It-- Oh my God, he's getting away!
You're still in the way. You don't seem to be moving at all.
Okay, Bart. This is where it ends. Relinquish the lizards.
I said relinquish!
Good riddance to bad lizards.
Oh, nuts.
Yes, but I was hoping they didn't know that.
Well, I hope you're happy, Bart. You have no idea what kind of plague you've unleashed upon this town.
Well, I was wrong. The lizards are a godsend.
No problem. We simply unleash wave after wave of Chinese Needle Snakes. They'll wipe out the lizards.
Yes, but we're prepared for that. We've lined up a fabulous type of gorilla that thrives on snake meat.
No, that's the beautiful part. When wintertime rolls around, the gorillas simply freeze to death.
Hm. Fifteen years of loyal service and this is how they tell me -- a jester with an invisible proclamation.
Lisa, the President of Harvard would like a word with you.
Mmm... heck of a school. Weren't you at Brown, Otto?
Lisa Simpson, report to the principal's office to discuss the results of yesterday's test.
I've just received some rather unusual news regarding your unprecedented A-triple-plus. To be honest, I'm surprised and saddened. No, not saddened, what's the word...? Ah yes, delighted.
I'm delighted to report that your grade brought the entire school's GPA up to our state's minimum standard. We now qualify for a Basic Assistance Grant. It's the greatest honor the school has ever received! And it's all thanks to you.
Your devotion to scholarship is a shining beacon to all who--
Lisa, what are you trying to say?
You cheated? Oh, Lordy, Lordy, Lordy. Why didn't Miss Hoover tell me?
Well... then, one could make the argument... that... there really is no problem.
Oh, very much so, but as long as we handle this in a mature and, above all, quiet manner, we'll still get that grant money. Oh, you really scared me there.
Now, now, leave the money out of this. It's not the money's fault you cheated. Besides, I've already started spending it. Check out the new scoreboard!
I'm still learning all the buttons.
Ohhh, does it ever!
Look around, Lisa. That grant money could do a lot of good.
We could buy real periodic tables instead of these promotional ones from Oscar Mayer.
And for the first time ever, our computer lab actually has a computer in it.
I don't know. I'm not even sure we can keep this one. It's up to Lisa.
And now, to present the grant money, a legendary figure in educational disbursement: State Comptroller Atkins.
No, no it isn't! Don't listen to her! She's out of her mind!
Places, people!
Oh, good old predictable Lisa! I knew her conscience was a ticking time bomb.
Okay, people, let's have a round of applause for the real Comptroller.
I know a liquor store where we can cash this right now.
Kenobi?!
Your metabolism will change someday, too, young man.
Life insurance? Hmmm... Will I be able to borrow against the equity?
Is that air-popped?
Attention hemline and midriff monitors --
Willie, get my Windex!
Well, you kids are always disobeying them!
Hey! Hey! Settle down, children. Now, who's ever wondered how the post office works? No one?
Ah, yes. Last year... anyway, look. Here comes our guide for the day, Postmaster Bill.
Bart!!
Well, children, any questions for Postmaster Bill?
Well, I'm just glad I work at an elementary school.
Yeah.
Edna won't even let me clap her erasers.
Whew. Mercy. Good evening. Our old friend Noah Webster defines laughter as the act or sound of laughing--
Well illustrated, Nelson. And now, fasten your funnybones for Groundskeeper -- oh, or should I say Grinskeeper... No, I'm sorry, Groundskeeper was correct -- Willie!
Yes. Not the pronoun, but rather a player with the unlikely name of "Who" is on first.
Well, seems as though we're just about at the halfway point, so why don't we call it intermission?
Oh! Don't go too far. If you like cafeteria workers in Beatle wigs with tennis racquet guitars, you won't wanna miss the second half.
Hello, Mother?
Sorry, Mother. I was driving through a tunnel and my cel phone wouldn't work.
But Mother, it cuts 90 minutes off my drive.
Edna, look. A dimmer switch could ratchet up the romance in our love nest.
What's the matter, Edna? Lately you just say "Ha!" to everything.
Why don't we continue this in pool supplies.
Edna, I'm gonna pop you a question and... I hope the answer is yes.
Do you think Mother would like this hat pin?
Oh, you've made me the happiest man on earth.
And now, because the children are our future, here are the children of Springfield Elementary with a song they call "The Children are our Future." Children?
Wait! Wait! We have one more act! The patriotic comedy stylings of Bart Simpson!
Well, it really did seem funny in rehearsal.
Uh, don't worry, sir, I'll teach these children some respect for their town. I'm assigning each of you twenty hours of community service.
You won't pass to the next grade.
All right, Martin. For your community service, you'll be setting up a midnight basketball program for inner-city street gangs.
Milhouse, do you like the beach?
Good, I want you to pick up all this medical waste that's washed up on the shore here.
Well, just keep working. You'll prick yourself with the antidote sooner or later.
Bart, not all community service is gang warfare and dangerous infection. And to illustrate that point, here's where you'll be working.
No, no, no. Next to it.
Who is it, Mother?
Oh! I'll be right down.
It's the organization for people with high I.Q.'s.
No Lisa, you're more than qualified. I've shared all your standardized test scores with the other members.
Welcome to Mensa! You've joined such luminaries as cartoonist Mell Lazarus, Geena Davis, and Parade Magazine's Marilyn vos Savant.
Lisa, I think you're going to fit in just fine around here.
Even the microfilm?
No, no, that's impossible. We reserved it months ago.
Oh, I'll do it.
Excuse me, gentlemen. Might I take a peek at your gazebo reservation form?
Yes, well, we each have a good case...
Mmm... I guess it would be the "it." I'm not exactly sure to what that refers, it's a...
Ow!
Ah, Chief, thank God you're here. We reserved gazebo seven, and look!
The jig is up, Quimby.
Huh. Well, that was unexpected.
He skipped town.
Done!
According to the charter, should the Mayor abdicate, a council of learned citizens may rule in his stead.
A new Athens!
And we've really elevated the level of discourse at the dog track.
We replaced the fanfare with classical music, and instead of chasing a rabbit the dogs chase a diploma.
Oh, excellent. Not only are the trains now running on time, they're running on metric time.
Remember this moment, people. Eighty past two on April forty-seventh. It's the dawn of an enlightened Springfield.
We have some new rules and regulations that you're just gonna go ape poopie over. Professor Frink?
Uh, ladies and gentlemen. I must apologize. This man does not speak for the council of Alphas. We hold you sub-Omeguloids in the highest regard.
Stephen Hawking!
The world's smartest man!
I'm sure what Dr. Hawking means is...
I don't like your tone.
Yeah, just try me you--
Oh!
Oh, absolutely, Lisa. That, and the sand bucket.
Why this is retardant.
That's called a hose lengthener.
Just read the label. It's a king-size flamer.
Bart, will you go bother someone else?
Stop that!
Can't you do something constructive?
Fire can be our servant, whether it's toasting s'mores, or raining down on Charlie. But it can turn not-so-nice, as you'll see in this skit by the Volunteer Fire Department Players.
What's it doing in the gymnasium?
Bart! Have you lost your...
Whoa! /
Bart... Simpson!
Thank you for coming.
I'll be blunt. Bart's latest escapade goes far beyond the realm of the hijink.
Your son is a ravenous demon, relentlessly gnawing at all that's good and true.
But worst of all, he drags down the grades of anyone who sits near him. Just look at this pattern.
... And turning to the 3-D map...
We see an unmistakable "cone of ignorance."
Very well, but there's no escaping the truth. Bart has a classic case of Attention Deficit Disorder.
How should I know? The point is, A.D.D. makes children restless and easily distracted.
Please, Mr. Simpson. I'm afraid I'll have to expel your son.
... Unless you're willing to try a radical, untested, potentially dangerous...
No. It's a new drug called "Focusyn."
Good Lord. He's gotten into the Pep Closet!
What a day. First the drinking fountain squirts me, and now this!
Good lord, he's going to fire!
I hope you all enjoy your ride to and tour of the Springfield Shopper Newspaper. Groundskeeper Willie and I will stay behind to remove all traces of asbestos and the word "evolution" from our school.
Yes. Now I'd like to ask each child to pair up with a buddy, so no one gets lost.
Well, Uter? I don't remember any Uter. Silly name -- Uter.
Did you hear? Homer's a critic!
Uh-oh. Radiation! Duck and cover!
Oh, my God! Lisa!
She's been crushed! And so have the hopes of our mathletics team.
Poindexter?!
Now, who could that be at this hour?
Yes, yes... Up, down... Side-to-side... What's your point?
Ow!
Mother, please! You're embarrassing me.
Don't listen to him, children.
Bart, stop fooling around.
Technically, yes. But the building costs would be astronomical.
No, no, no, no. We're not building anything.
How did those trucks get here so fast?
Good Lord! Do we really need all those ramps?
Look, you're getting a little philosophical for me.
Well, be that as it may...
This is a proud day. Now, when people ask if we're in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1975, I can say, "We are closer than ever before!"
Thank you. To inaugurate our ramp system, here's the first of what I hope will be many disabled students. Bart Simpson!
What the...? Bart, where's your wheelchair?
Well, at least we're prepared for the new millennium.
My God, the whole thing's made of breadsticks!
Two hundred thousand dollars! Are you mad?
The good news is, we need no longer fear vicious mob reprisals.
But due to lack of funds, Springfield Elementary is closed forever.
Oh, you're cheering now, but some day you'll...
I'm just gonna stop trying.
Now, you keep asking me that. And I keep telling you, over there.
As for the school, we are exploring various options to raise the two hundred thousand dollars we need.
Please, sir. Put some shoes on.
People, these are all good ideas...
You're right. It's hopeless. No one has that kind of money.
Uh, well, maybe we can pry open his wallet with a slick, professional pitch. A school play!
Welcome to the world premiere of "The Nice Man Giveth."
Aaaaaand freeze! Now, who in Springfield will eat the poisoned broth? Whoo, it could be anyone, even Mr. Burns.
Mr. Burns, I'll be honest. We had a hidden agenda tonight.
The holiday season is approaching and these children need a school...
Valencia?! These are juice oranges!
Edna, this is childish.
I will hang up when he leaves.
If you would just let me lead...
Now, be careful with those video cameras, children. In order to buy them, the school board had to eliminate geography.
This globe will never spin again. Now, class, I want you to be creative with your video projects. I don't want to see thirty "Blair Witch" knock-offs.
Not now, Bart. I'm trying to urinate.
Awards and honors are great, but they don't pay the pickle man.
I'm an imposter. That man is the real Seymour Skinner.
Just try me, you... Owww.
Go ahead and laugh! We have a better town bird!
The bluebird.
Wait a minute. That gold-colored substance in the riverbed...
Hmm, it's not like the Who to be tardy. I'm worried.
So Bart, our school policy is to give students in your situation straight A's.
The tragic loss of your sister.
Ah, head-lice inspection day. While the kids are out getting their nits picked, we can have our own private "cootie call."
It is usually the cleanest.
C'mon, Edna, don't be tardy!
Our mayor's corrupt?! Oh, Mr. X has done this town a great service, despite his poor grammar and spelling.
No, Mother.
Willie! As your employer, I insist that you...
Yep. Blanks and a blood pack.
Their union has called an "emergency caucus."
But we'll have the last laugh on those Johnny-Come-Not-lies. We're gonna watch my favorite movie, about a Grinchy little character who tries to "steal" Christmas.
Ho, ho, ho!
It's classic mirth-making, is what it is.
There it is. Take off, and have a frank and productive holiday.
I fixed the DVD!
Children, it seems the phone lines are down. So I'm afraid we're stuck here for the duration.
Yes, yes, yes. We all had plans. Except for me, ironically. I'm right where I want to be.
I don't care if you're Kristi Yamaguchi. No one leaves the building.
I don't care if they're kissing Kristi Yamaguchi. You're not going home.
If you don't eat your relish, you're not getting any mayonnaise.
Well, I hope you've all learned something from Nelson's headstrongedness. Now from now on...
It's getting ugly out there. Think, Skinner, think. What would Superintendent Chalmers do?
Eh, that's no help.
Ah, my old footlocker.
Hah, back in 'Nam I could command respect.
That elephant ate my entire platoon. Well, I'm not gonna let it happen again.
Children! Stand down!
I said stand down!
I'm not joking, people! From now on there will be no talking out of turn, or leaving this room. Willie?
Are you questioning my authority? Willie?
Actually, there are. Five, ten, fifteen, twenty... Uh, can you two share a hook?
We're fine, then.
Oh! I think we hit something.
Uh, now children, if you have to answer nature's call during the night, use this bucket next to Bart's head.
All right, lights out.
Is that some sort of plush novelty?
Uh, well, here's a scouring pad. It's just as good.
What the...?
A tunnel?!
Not on my watch, he's not.
I know it looks like the path to freedom, but one collapse and presto, you've got a snow casket.
Gonna, wounna, shounna. Willie? Destroy it.
Defying orders, eh? Well, I see you Scotsmen are thrifty with courage, too.
Fine. I'll do the job myself.
Help, it's caving in!
That's precisely the problem and you know it. Now get me out of here!
No! You're twisting my words!
This is a gross misuse of school property. Where are the dodge balls?
All right, that's it! I'm writing all your names on the detention list in my mind.
I can't write this. It's a grammatical nightmare.
Nelson, put that globe down! Milhouse, stay out of my desk! Jimbo, that's my Princi Award!
No! You can't go in there!
I wasn't a principal when I was one.
If I were a billionaire, why would I be living with my mother?
They're just not responding to logic anymore. I'll never win this alone. There's only one guy who can help me now.
You're my only hope, Nibbles.
Godspeed, Nibbles. Godspeed.
Nuts.
Nelson, if you get me outta this, there's a hall monitor position coming open in the spring...
I know. That's why the position's available.
Not "Huck Finn"! I spent hours crossing out the sassback!
You did it, Nibbles. Now chew through my ball sack.
Superintendent Chalmers!
Uh, well sir, I uh...
Bart, if there's one thing I'm good at, it's pretending things didn't happen. And I think this is one of those.
Exactly.
One of those situations where...
Welcome to the third lecture in our series on "Not Putting Things Up Your Nose." Please welcome Homer Simpson.
Thank you. Unfortunately, due to budget cuts, we are canceling art, music, and dance. Please evacuate the auditorium before it's bulldozed into a mini-mall.
Yes, school spirit is down 3.4 percent!
Oh, any references?
Well, the only other one to apply was Moe Syszlak, and his stuff scares the hell out of me.
How could anyone consider that making love? All right, Jack, you're hired. I'll clear you out a cubby.
Dear Lord! What are you doing?
No, no, it's all wrong. The shapely female form has no place in art.
I sketched out exactly what I wanted.
Did you even look at the napkin?
Oh, I was in the zone that day.
Because...?
Well, if you want to keep this job, you'll make it your style.
Darn right, I'm the boss. Don't forget, I can send you back where you came from... college boy.
You know, when Superintendent Chalmers suggested a school mural, I almost thought he said a school Muriel. Muriel's his sister. And uh... Thank you, Bruce Vilanch.
And now, I present "Puma Pride" by a college-educated artist...
Jack Crowley.
I know, sir. It's an embarrassment.
This isn't what I wanted! Where's the edge?
No napkin could wipe the crumbs of failure from your mouth.
Now, ah, pizza's working well on Thursday, but I think the kids will follow it to Tuesday.
It's crystal clear who did this: Jack Crowley.
Crowley's an ex-con?! Dear Lord, I've peed in front of him!
That felon could have torched the whole school... were it not stuffed with asbestos.
We don't have time for guessing games.
You had a turn. I want to guess.
My car!
Exactly what is your interest in my mother?
Good Lord, Mother! I can see your... figure!
What I do for my allowance money is nobody's business.
Now, Bob, uh, your graduate degrees more than qualify you to be assistant janitor.
But I am a bit troubled by your constant attempts to murder people.
Good luck. That kid's like the Road Runner. He won't go down.
I-- You know, Bob, your voice would be perfect for the school's morning announcements.
Ha! You're hired.
... so, from now on anything caught in your zipper will be handled by the school nurse, and not me. And now... are you adequately prepared to rock?
Silence! Here they are, the Party Posse!
That's not true! This assembly was my idea. I like your brand of inoffensive pop rock.
No, I didn't. I even came in early and made orange drink.
She lives with me.
Well Edna, it just might have some company.
Thank you, Drederick Tatum. That was truly a K.O. Knockout Oration.
Lisa, this is outrageous! Explain yourself!
Well, looks like our phenomenon is actually a phenomenot. Because when you look at it rationally...
Hakala makta towhoo abowhoo.
It was incredible, I saw heaven!
But it wasn't clouds and angels playing harps like at the end of so many Three Stooges shorts. It was a golden elementary school, with a teacher's lounge that stretched as far as the eye could see. And no one was ever tardy.
No! It was heaven! My vision of heaven!
My turn, huh? Let's see...
Okay. Homer.
Mm-hm.
Oh my goodness, an untied shoelace. I'll just get down on one knee and retie that.
Good Lord. Brought down by one beer?
Oh, that was terrible. I'll just sprinkle you all with some amnesia dust.
A second grade sorceress so powerful, she made tonight's refreshments out of dead people.
Tonight she'll perform the classic "Levitating Dragon" trick.
Here's Lisa Simpson!
Safe!
Good Lord, acid rain!
Finally, this town will have a real claim to fame.
I know. Doesn't it just honk you off?
And our school board's cut us back to sixteen! All of them lanthanides.
Hmf. Here's your bond issue.
Quick. Take these.
Welcome to Dick Cheney's America.
Now Willie, don't tell anyone I'm trying my stand-up comedy act tonight. If the students find out I'm performing at Floppy's, I'll never live it down.
All right. Plus one?
Now. I'll give you directions, starting from the Simpsons' house...
I just hope the audience is kind because my material is weak and, uh, and I have that bladder thing.
So, it's, uh, standardized testing time again. Have you ever noticed how the dumb kids fill in the wrong circles?
Lost my place. Maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe a little, uh, improv would "raise the roof," here. Would someone name a profession?
Uh... I think I heard "California surfer."
How come you always run out of tardy slips before you run out of permission slips?
Um... I lack confidence.
Who?
Welcome to Career Day. Here to tell you about his job is Bart's friend's Dad, Kirk Van Houten.
I see. Well, we, uh, still have fifty-six minutes left. Any questions?
No, you might as well talk about it now.
That was one lousy career day.
I was wondering what she was doing here.
Yes, Seamus. Ninety minutes of watching a man drink in a bathtub.
Good idea.
Seamus, uh, we won't need you to speak any more.
Wow! Walter Mondale, Marvin Hamlisch, Mark Fuhrman... The former President of Procter and Gamble?
Yes, fine. He'll do. Anything to end this unstructured conversation.
...and in a gutless act of political correctness, pizza day will now be known as "Italian-American sauce bread day."
And now today's guest speaker... the creator of "Danger Dog," Geoff Jenkins!
Uh... I have a question, Mr. Jenkins. Could you tell us about all the hard work and buckling down that you put into every cartoon?
Well then, eh, tell the children how hard you studied in school to get where you are today.
Fire, children -- hurry outside! There's no time to let today's lecture sink in!
I won't stand by while you're glamorizing sass! Now those youngsters will throw their lives away... drawing things that never were.
The 2nd Battle of Springfield was fought by the North...the South...and the East...to keep Springfield in, out of, and next to the Union, respectively. Now, the actual battle was fought over there, where that man is standing. But he won't move, so we'll do it here.
This battlefield is rife with inaccuracy. You dead people stop playing cards. And Stonewall Jackson... stop roller blading.
Tanks? Oh, this is just too inaccurate.
Are you mad, Brunella? You can't fail Lisa. She's the only child keeping this school accredited. Without her, we'd have to release these children back into the forest. So let's just turn that minus into a plus...
Perhaps we could get her a private coach.
Did they have to guess the date of my death?
When I was starting out, they said "You're good -- but are you 'plaque' good?" Well, today I can say "Yes I am!"
...Three, two one. Thank you. I will now take pre-approved questions from honor-roll students.
Security!
Now normally I wouldn't go near a giant chocolate cake in my dress polyester, but with Bart Simpson safely encapsulated, I'd be delighted to pose.
I've been taken down a peg. A whole peg!
Ah Mother, may I read a magazine while I wait in the car?
This air conditioning is better than any truant officer. I'm seeing students I haven't seen in years.
Did he say blue ribbon?
Mr. Simpson, this zone is for school buses only.
Now let's raise the roof for the bland informative rap of M. C. Safety and the Caution Crew!
Heh-heh-heh, watch out Beatles! Now I have one more important announcement to share with you. Would Lisa Simpson join me on stage?
Lisa, because of your outstanding score on yesterday's big test, you're being immediately moved up to... the third grade!
Okay Bart, since you like attention so much, I have a second announcement.
I was going to tell you this privately, but... because of your incredibly low test score, we're sending you back to third grade.
There, there, Audrey. It's happened to all of us.
Willie, we have two more names for the wall.
A-parent-who-waives-her-right-to-sue-says-what?
Got it.
Bart and Lisa are lost in Capital City and presumed crying.
I'm so sorry. Lisa's a very special little girl, and we'll spare no expense in finding her.
We're looking. But in the meantime, the Class Clown Pro Tem will take his place.
Well, if this episode has taught us anything, it's that nothing works better than the status quo. Bart, you're promoted back to the fourth grade.
And Lisa, you have a choice. You may continue to be challenged in third grade, or return to second grade and be merely a big fish in a small pond--
That's just sad.
Thank you, sir. And what more fitting finale than to gaze reverently at Old Glory.
Wait, this just doesn't add up. Milhouse has never been anything but a comic foil.
There's your queen bee! Explain yourself, Simpson.
Then Krusty will feel my wrath! The spritz has hit the fan.
Not an option!
Yes, about that. Mother's neck wattle got caught in a zipper. I've got a long night of boo-boo kissing ahead of me but don't worry, I got you these store-bought apples instead.
Then why were we going apple picking?
Oh, I must have the wrong classroom. I was looking for my girlfriend, not Pam Dawber.
Are you ready for a little after school special? Eyes front, Simpson.
Hello? Mother?... I'll be right there. Now she wants to get out of the tub.
I'll be back in three hours. Maybe less. But almost certainly more.
Ow! Mother! We were sharing an open-mouthed kiss!
Leave us forever? I'd better pee on this fire.
As Principal, I'd just like to say a few words about what this wonderful woman means to this school and to me.
Webster's Dictionary defines Mrs. Krabappel as...
Excuse me, I have an emergency page from mother.
This press conference is over!
Willie, you're no stranger to the inner-workings of the female mind.
Well, I'm a little worried that, uh, with all this attention, Edna may meet someone better.
Oh, I've been a fool. I've gotta go after her.
Edna Krabappel, please report to the principal's arms.
I took a personal day.
Well technically since she's paying for the room, she brought me.
This woman carried me for nine and a half months. I was out for two weeks, then went back in.
I believe the only venue for me is the ride of broken dreams.
He's never gonna get up. He's got
no legs.
Well, since Edna dumped me, I've been wandering around this park all night. It's educational and offers mild thrills. Just like Edna.
Good Lord, I may lose Edna forever. I've gotta stop her from winning. Then she'll be broken, miserable and mine.
Don't look back. Just keep driving.
Wait! That boy is lying! He's not illiterate.
Ooh, this game is gonna get some disapproving clucks. But for now I need my tongue to talk to you. I don't want to lose Edna, so I need you to sabotage her chances of winning tonight.
All right, Bart, I didn't want to resort to this, but... this drawing was found on the wall of Springfield Elementary late last week.
That's pro bono.
This is the worst thing I've ever done. Even worse than what I did in 'Nam.
You're gonna get your parade. Down my esophagus.
Oh God. I've created a Prankenstein!
I'm sorry, everyone. I perpetrated this charade. The boy can read, and Edna Krabappel is the greatest teacher I have ever known. If she can teach me to love, then she can teach anything.
Not on your life, Reverend. From now on, I'm my own man.
Wait, it gets better.
Edna Krabappel, will you marry me? Now I must warn you, two months' salary only bought me the ring box.
Do you want to check out the bed of tomorrow... today?
Hmm, there appears to be a red dot on my trouser fronts. I'd better lower them.
The dot also appears to be on my underpants. Well, down they go.
I'm afraid that information is confidential.
You wouldn't dare.
I could easily put them back in their original order.
Noooooo!
SCHOOL'S BACK IN SESSION / LET'S BEGIN OUR LESSONS...
Willie, did you get the letter about your pay cut?
Indeed there will. Budgetwise, of course.
Welcome back, children. We've all had fascinating summers. I was the Maitre D' at the Springfield Country Club.
You mean your dad the raging alcoholic?
Um, we'd better get down to business. As this is a non-leap year, we're already a day behind.
Well, if by "wank" you mean educational fun, then stand back, it's wanking time.
Let's get the year rolling with an all-school spelling bee!
Bart, your word is "imply."
Well, we're down to our last two students. Milhouse, your word is "choke."
Stop laughing! It will scar him for life!
It is kind of infectious. Lisa, "impugn."
That's right! Lisa Simpson, you're school champion!
There'll be time for that later. Now, you can concentrate on representing our school at the state spelling finals.
And here's your prize for today: a scale model of the planet Mars.
Behold, the red planet.
I wish he wouldn't use me in every example.
Lisa, to honor Springfield Elementary's shining star, we are granting you a double-wide locker.
Your books will actually fit in this one.
Your effects have been moved to Willie's shack.
Two cheers for Lisa! Hip, hip...
Hip, hip...
Now, deep breath and quiet.
Ah, this is as romantic as the night I proposed.
I was kinda hoping we could use this audio cassette.
Fine, but no cake.
I'm a veteran, Mother.
Mother!
Before we begin, children, may I remind you the school computers are not to be used to access PrincipalSkinnerStinks.com, Skinnersucks.org or Shavedskinner.edu.
Now today we have a special guest: a documentary filmmaker whose works include "Lost Luggage, Shattered Lives," and "Upskirt Dreams." Please welcome Declan Desmond.
Powerful work. And now he's going to make a documentary about Springfield Elementary, which I assume will be glowing and positive, unlike all of his other work.
I think we've seen enough.
Why look, it's typical student Lisa Simpson.
Hitting it off already! I haven't seen such a natural pair since half-sandwich and soup of the day.
I'll just leave you two alone. Remember, as far as he knows, we still teach math.
Why, whatever do you mean?
Mother, I served in 'Nam.
I certainly appreciate you helping us out with this field trip.
I thought I was being kicked exceptionally hard lately.
Look children, that giant clam appears to be opening. This could be a wonderful journal entry!
Look at the size of those flawless pearls!
I might have known... but I didn't.
Indeed. You take this teacher evaluation test. I'll proctor.
Read the directions silently as I read them aloud to you.
Oh, thank you. Mother always said a curvy spine is the devil's roller coaster.
Hey, you can't have that--
Due to budget cuts, music class will now have a two drink minimum. Cranapple juice only counts as one. And....
My slacks! have descended!
Mother...
Mother, she's right here.
Congratulations Mr. Student Body President -- your casino night is a huge success.
That was always on too late for me.
Well, this was a disaster.
Care for a milk?
Martin, in light of this fiasco, you're going to have to resign as president.
Easy there. That's whole milk.
Well, I guess we're gonna need a new student body president.
Uh... yes, we all are.
Nelson, rebuttal?
"Lisa..." "Lisa..." "Lisa..." Wow, she even beat perennial write-in candidate "Skinner Sucks."
The students will do anything she says. She's captured their imagination like a bright piece of construction paper.
Oh hello, Lisa. We were just uh, discussing Vasco De Gama.
Outstanding notions! Each more implementable than the last.
Lisa, you were elected to be seen and enjoyed. Don't hide your light in a smoky back room, making dusty old decisions.
But just in case you want to do any more thinking, I'm proud to present you with an official key to the study hall.
Use it anytime you like.
Yes, it's like you're Harry Potter without the magic and wonder. Just sign these authorization forms and you can be on your way.
That little girl should learn to read things before she signs them.
No, it's just standard key release boilerplate.
Boy, she'll believe anything.
Uh hmm. And yet there it is.
I'll just lock this door.
I'M SO HAPPY WITH MY EVIL PLAN / SAY GOODBYE TO MUSIC, GYM AND ART / SOON WE WILL HAVE THE PERFECT SCHOOL / WHERE FUN AND EXCITEMENT NEVER START!
I THINK THE RULES ARE COOL!
Hmm, not a cloud in the sky -- a perfect day to unveil Operation SLAAAM: So Long Athletics Art And Music. Care for a T-shirt?
Oh well... I... Forgive me, sir.
Lisa, student government is meaningless. Look at your constitution. It's written on the back of a placemat.
I can't see the harm.
Gimme that. Any student caught striking will be severely disciplined. Unless all of you do it. Then I'm stymied.
Lisa, please. Help me lure them back. I had to do what I did. Our budget is stretched tighter than mother's sauna pants.
Yes, mother.
What about gym?
Why didn't I cancel sign-making and creative chanting?
Would you be willing to pay an extra dollar twenty-three in taxes to fund them?
Willie, can't you turn your hose on them?
Well, that's a good idea, too.
You want to get rid of Lisa?! But she's such a good student!
Lisa Simpson, you have just been transferred to the Springfield magnet school for the gifted and troublesome. Please climb into the idling bus.
You're actually giving everyone in town a Christmas present?
But how can you afford all this on a widower's salary?
That's really a cheat, isn't it?
I'll just be moving along, Lisa. Snowball II.
Or maybe he'll corrupt her.
You Scots sure are a contentious people.
Oh, untrue. Last Thursday we visited a battlefield.
Tried, and failed.
Nope. Never under a dollar.
I'm very sorry to hear that, Willie.
Edna, we don't need wedding china. The dishes mother won on "Let's Make A Deal" are holding up nicely.
And I suppose those wedding guests will also pay for dishwashing liquid, heated water, and two-sided sponges?
Silent anger: the cornerstone of a successful marriage.
... and while the school's only ball is being repaired...
... the following alternative sports will be offered: dodge-rock, volley-brick, and base-game.
Finally, on a personal note, Mrs. Krabappel and I are to be joined in holy wedlock...this Saturday. We'll be honeymooning at Lake Shelbyville Lodge, Cabin Thirty-two, Room Three. And we do not wish to be disturbed.
Homer, this bachelor party seems to have peaked. Would you please return my pants and/or underpants so I can go home?
Who are all of you people?
I can't -- I might be called upon to give directions later.
There's something I've wanted to say to you for a long time. Am I a good principal?
You know I wish I had an exciting life... like that class picture photographer. Ho, how many women has he had in that van? Two, that I know of.
No. Absolutely no friction dancing!
You know, Homer, Edna was bugging me and bugging me to set a date, and I picked one that seemed far away, and it zoomed up like a junebug flying in my windshield.
Homer, Lenny...my man... I could never lie to you guys. I'm starting to get cold feet. Please don't tell anyone.
Homer, you're still talking to me!
You know I'm not. We had a long discussion about that where I clearly indicated the coldness of my feet.
I don't know Edna, I'm not quite ready to take that plunge.
Quick, Edna! I'll use your purse as a scoop.
Well, this is it, Edna. As I once said at the battle of Khe Sanh, I surrender.
Edna?!
Is this corn oil?
Well, I'm uh, I'm afraid Edna has gone from tardy to absent. So uh, let's uh move onto the reception and forget this awkwardness with some delicious shrimp mocktail.
Well, in retrospect, I could have been a little more "into" the whole thing.
"Just The Two Of Us." I spent fifteen dollars on those dance lessons, might as well use 'em.
Forward, side, together. Back, side, together. Forward, side, together. Back, side, together...
Oh God, I've lost the love of my life. Bart's right, I am a wiener.
That was before I missed her smell, her warmth, her beautiful, beautiful penmanship!
Seymour.
Really? You'll be my Cyrano?
Edna, I made a huge mistake and I want you back. How's that, Homer?
Every second without you is like a million kicks in the crotch.
Homer, Marge, if I could just speak to Edna for a moment.
Just why am I taking your advice?
There's no ring on that finger.
MS. KRABAPPEL / A SAD PRINCIPAL / IS DESPERATE AND NEEDY / IF YOU COME HOME / I WON'T DIE ALONE / AND THAT'S WHAT I'D PREFER...
What are you doing in Edna's place? Where is she?
This can't be happening!
You've heard of it? Is it romantic?
Nooo!
They told me it was Catman! Now prepare for some roughhousing.
Well, at least I went down like a man.
Hm, tough crowd. Uh, would everyone just rise for our National Anthem?
Good Lord! Bart's mooning the flag!
Don't look, Buttermilk.
Your child's behavior appalls me, not just as a principal, but as a veteran of America's only losing war.
Oh sure, Marge. Just like "blind Bart," "wheelchair Bart," "pregnant Bart" and my personal favorite, "railroad spike through head Bart."
Ah, put a book in it.
Uh, Lisa, I think I can help you.
Are you kidding? I love it. I once had a principal like that. Now, come with me.
This, young lady, is a mimeo machine. A hand-operated duplicating device -- no electricity needed.
That smell takes me back.
Finally, in nineteen ninety-two, I was reunited with that chair. It wasn't quite the same.
People, please. It's a school night.
Yes yes, you've made that quite clear.
They're just asserting their independence. If a child doesn't do it now, it may never happen.
Can I offer you the use of my Merkur?
Step right up, and bid on items donated by local businesses!
First up is this video camera.
Sold!
Wait, why did your father burn his pants?
A chance to bring down Bart Simpson? Our school's second most-wanted criminal after the mysterious El Barto?
Hmm... sign me up!
Hi. Would you mind showing us video footage of your last concert?
I'm sharing a laugh with my new friends!
Not yet. Can we verify exactly what time Bart was at the show?
If only we had the exact date.
Bingo! Thank you, Mr. Alcatraaaz.
Ah, ah, ah. "It is nothing."
Yes. Share with us the wisdom of the street, oh mighty Alcatraaaz.
Do you think there's a place in the hip-hop world for a forty-something elementary school administrator?
Hmmm.
Happy three in the morning, everyone! In a mere five hours, we'll be gazing at Springfield's most exciting glacier, Springfield Glacier. I hope you're all wearing glacier-appropriate clothing.
Yes, well, while I disagree with your T-shirt's assertion, I do encourage anything that raises glacier awareness. Busward to adventure!
So, Edna, I uh, I wrote up some possible discussion topics for this trip. Oh, here's one: I'm still in love with you. Discuss?
The Skin-man doesn't give up that easily.
Oh, I'm not worried.
My indemnity waivers! Stop the bus!
We'll just use the chains.
Behold, children. The majesty of Springfield Glacier! Crane your necks skyward to behold its icy glory.
I'm going to exchange this beach towel I bought at Sequoia National Park.
I learned too late that it implied tumescence.
Dying alone, huh? Terrible fate to befall any woman -- ice-age or modern-day.
Oh for goodness sake. You've moved on, have you? Well, so have I.
Just play along.
Bart, because of your sister's restraining order, there is no place in this school you can legally occupy, without violating your order. Observe.
A.m. kindergarten made the Bart doll. P.m. kindergarten made the Lisa. The point is, we're not allowed to have you in this building.
I will. But there is one place on school property that falls outside all laws of man or God.
We've got to upgrade Springfield's image -- show them we're more than just a town that's still afraid of eclipses.
Welcome seniors and sexually precocious underclassmen. I'd like to say goodbye to those who are going off to college, or to fight in Gulf War Five: "Operation Find Our President's Head."
And now, here's Assistant Principal Kearney.
It's what turned Superintendent Chalmers into a vegetable.
Attention everyone. Please welcome our Valedictorian, Lisa Simpson. She will be attending Yale...I mean, Hot Dog on a Stick Management Camp.
Bartholomew Simpson!
Come and get your diploma.
Bart, now that you've graduated I can finally say this: you really press my cider.
Yes, Superintendent Chalmers?
Yes! Of course I do. HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU / HA--
Really? I'm a Libra. There's a lot of compatibility there.
Sir, this school has a strict no-animal policy. I assume these are hypothetical dogs and poni?
Nope.
Yes. I saw those when my normal grocery store was on strike.
Fair enough. I assume these snacks are nutritious?
Yo.
The best photographs, or "photos", will be prominently displayed in the school lobby all year long.
Well, I guess you didn't find anything interesting to photograph.
Leave your body, Seymour. Leave your body.
Now as queen, you shall be entitled to eat the same French Fries the teachers do.
The very same.
So Willie, during the festival, you'll be wearing these urine-soaked rags. You're the village idiot!
Now, allow me to apply this rubber cement to your face -- to represent the ravages of plague.
Now peasants, since the middle ages had no compact discs or Super Mario Men, people found entertainment in abusing the village idiot. So, let history come alive!
It's the backseat of my Merkur. There's thirty-seven cents in the coin caddy. And stay out of my diary!
This is no accident.
You're responsible for this, Simpson!
Bart, I'm sick of playing the tomfool. You are hereby expelled from Springfield Elementary!
Mother, I'm fine. I...
Uh-oh.
"Ebony and Ivory"? I'm afraid that song's taken! By me and my mother. You know, people say when we're on stage, it's more like "Scary-oke." Scary talented, I assume.
Capital! My mother and I have been performing together since I was in fourth grade, and it's really brought us closer.
Don't worry, Mother. I have your eye balm in my man-purse right here.
It's not a crib, it's a cot!
EBONY AND IVORY...
Mrs. Simpson, please...
What, a wall?
Interpret them artistically?
Which of you boys hurled Lisa Simpson's backpack through my window?
Lisa, I hold in my hand a sticker with a frowny-face on it. Don't make me affix it to your file!
I'm peeling off the back...
Don't make me do this.
May God forgive me.
Willie, we've got rats chewing through the wiring again!
Mr. and Mrs. Simpson, I'm afraid we have a real problem with Lisa.
Your daughter broke a window, upended an ashcan, and hurled a Thermos-brand thermos onto the street!
I'm afraid it doesn't keep any drinks anything.
I've asked the school psychologist to shed some light on your daughter's sudden burst of inappropriateness.
"Daddy's Face-down Thanksgiving," "Left at the Grand Canyon," "The Day a Policeman Came to My Soccer Game."
If I may make a suggestion.
The school is looking for a new "Safety Salamander". When Lisa sees you teaching children to avoid downed power lines, it could restore her faith in you and the male gender.
Uh... he fell asleep in the suit and suffocated.
Okay Lisa... ...to study in Rome, an applicant needs outstanding grades, check... Uh-oh. Lisa, it says you have to speak fluent Italian.
You speak Italian?
Flawless logic. But I am going to have to ask you to speak a few phrases to verify your fluency.
Though not now, because I have a series of important meetings.
But how's tomorrow for you?
Because it's terrible for me. But I'll get back to you. Soon.
I don't have four spares, mother.
This is W-A-3-Q-I-ZED. Do you read me?
Mother, please. I'm communicating with my fellow hams.
Ah, nineteen ninety-five. A fine year for Camrys. No one would ever guess you spent three months in a lake.
Hmm, that's odd -- we only turn the heat on for parents' night.
What the F-minus?
Steeeaam!
This wood is more buckled than a pilgrim's hat. But who's responsible?
Don't bother struggling -- I've got your scruff.
I don't want Milhouse.
Yes, thank you, Myra. To highlight the seriousness of Bart's offense, Superintendent Chalmers will be joining us by video uplink.
Yes, well you won't think it's so funny when we send Bart here.
It's the only place cruel enough to straighten Bart out. They use a proven concept, "tough hate", to turn around foul-mouthed hooligans. Then they send them home, quietly ticking away.
Got it!
Now I have a ring tone for my brand new cell phone.
No wires at all. Except this one.
Children, your gym teacher Ms. Pommelhorst has a brief announcement.
We're telling you children now, so you can adjust and not make jokes.
Precisely the type of wordplay I seek to discourage. "New wood." Now, please welcome your new gym teacher: Coach Krupts!
I have the strangest feeling I've met him before.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to announce the winner of the science fair. Though I must note I'm surprised Lisa Simpson didn't enter a project this year!
Well, mother, aren't you glad you didn't get more intimate with him?
It is with great joy and a sense of once again everything is back to where it started, that we welcome our once and future Groundskeeper... Willie!
Now let's all enjoy some punch and cookies. Willie, you can start cleaning up now.
Willie, please express yourself through mopping.
And when you're done, here are the keys to your new shack.
Bart, do you expect me to believe that? That story is the biggest load of... Krabappel? Making out with Moe?
She also graduated from Springfield Elementary!
You know, Juliana, it's no surprise you became such a success. You always got straight "A's" in school.
Well, of course you did. You are a girl.
No, all I meant was, from what I've seen, boys are better at math, science... the real subjects. There, that should put the matter behind us.
No, of course not! I don't know why girls are worse.
Uh, one thing we can all agree on though -- this little lady sure looks pretty tonight. Am I right?
Don't worry, I have a plan: pretend I agree with them.
No, that's how it always looks.
Today we celebrate the first of many, many, many, many diversity forums.
Why is it that women "appear" to be worse at math then men? What is the source of this "illusion?" Or, as I call it, "the biggest lie ever told."
Please believe me, I understand the problems of women... see?
Am I wearing women's clothes? I didn't notice. When I look in my closet, I don't see male clothes or female clothes. They're all the same.
Oh, no... of course not! Women are unique in every way!
No, no, no. It's the differences -- of which there are none -- that make the sameness... exceptional. Just tell me what to say!
No girls allowed!
It's Groundskeeper Skinner now.
You know, I still think about you all the time.
You mean... Lamarckian evolution?
And what if I say no?
No! That was a once-in-a-lifetime A.P.R.!
Class, starting today we will be presenting an alternative theory on the origin of man.
It is now.
They sure are. "A" plus!
Hm, this helpful video will evade all your questions. Eyes screenward!
Lisa, you've said quite enough. Children, drown her out with whistling and arm flatulence.
Now honestly, the Bible's about the same age as the rest of our textbooks.
Otto! Are you meting out corporal punishment?!
You are temporarily suspended from bus driving, with pay!
Hand in your beaded seat-cover.
And your gun.
Yes, yes, every day we go through this. Why don't you just incinerate the contraband.
Careful with those peanut crumbs! My allergy is so sensitive a single molecule would make my throat close like a museum at four forty-five.
Simpson! Report to detention at once.
My allergen!
I'M A COOTIE EATER / I'VE BEEN ONE ALL MY LIFE. / I LIKE THE COOTIES SO MUCH / I HAVE A COOTIE WIFE.
This is not going to end well.
Excuse me. I'm supposed to stand in your store window and breastfeed Bilbo Baggins.
Kryptonite? What's that? The "ite" suffix suggests a mineral.
Wait... maybe Bart has a kryptonite!
Perhaps. But for now, you may suckle your Baggins.
I've got you now, Bart.
Actually, I'm not wondering at all.
Simpson, you've been waving your nuts in my face for too long. Eat shrimp and die!
Stick-on-stick. Just like the knights of old.
A wooden sign!
Peanut?!
If either of us falls in, we're doomed!
Nooooo!
What kind of lies are you feeding her, Simpson?
That's the man I was telling you about.
I may be bifurcated, but I still have feelings.
Well, I'd do anything for my beloved Army.
How about you bite me?
I honor the ding, sir.
Willie, you're fired with complete loss of pension.
Best not to get involved.
Okay, field-trippers, welcome to the Springfield Tide Pools -- nature's most fecund eco-system!
Who will spot the playful abalone? The mighty winkle? I think it might be you, Sherri!
Now remember, these pools can be dangerous, so everyone pick a buddy.
Good boy, Nelson. Squeeze him extra tight for safety!
Shut up! I'm just giving him CPR -- the kiss of life! And if anyone loves Bart it's Nelson.
I'm sorry. Nelson never woke up.
Never woke up because he never passed out. He's right over there.
Tell me what?
Willie, clean up this mess!
Splendid, Lisa. By far the best presentation of the day!
And you should be. The city's Multicultural Council has invited one lucky student to perform at City Hall. Lisa, you'll be representing us, and the noble Hitachee people!
Must be the war cry of her tribe.
My God, Willie, that fire is headed right for the tetherball pole! Put it out!
Then I'm afraid these "Wet Ones" will have to do the job.
What monster, or pair of monsters, would steal our extinguishers?
It's quite a collection, and I assume, irreplaceable.
Simpson, I know you're behind this. Well, you are gonna get some counseling from our school psychologist.
Not dead!
Zimmerman, Zorx, and... Zzyzwiski. Now back to class, all of you.
Sir, if we let these hill folk into our school, our test scores would drop so low, we'd lose all federal funding.
Plus our last bake sale was a disaster. People took bites without buying the cookies.
We're gonna have to give this some thought.
HOW DO WE GAG A BLAB-BERMOUTH LIKE LISA?
HOW DO WE STOP HER WRITING UP WHAT SHE SAW?
FOR A GIFT CARD FROM THE GAP?
SHE MIGHT!
You have a lovely voice, sir.
Lisa, would you consider tutoring Cletus' children?
Made with the fondue set I bought you for Christmas?
Next item on the agenda...
I'm afraid that due to funding cuts, we've had to sell the Science Department skeleton and replace it with this Halloween costume.
Moving on, our class trip to Italy is now spaghetti night at Papa John's, and your fifteen-hundred dollar deposits will not be refunded.
We will conclude by passing around a sheet on which I would like everyone's email address.
Just call me Fireman Skinner.
/ It's weren't nothin', really. / Just doin' our job. /
Fine art, I bet!
Uh, gentlemen... I'm uh... I'm starting to wonder if we've crossed a line here.
Okay, okay. I'll just look the other way.
You guys sure aren't making this easy.
I think what she would treasure most is a gift bought through honest effort. Because...
...integrity... trust... exploitation... the golden rule... role models... serious crime... zero tolerance... the Ten Commandments...
Time for a head count. Children, line up according to height... no, weight... no, the sum total of the letters in your last names if each letter is assigned a numeric value according to its place in the alphabet! Quickly now!
Bart's missing! He must still be in the school!
Behold -- our new state-of-the-art weapon in the global war against misbehavior!
CTU -- the Counter Truancy Unit!
Enhance!
Dehance! Dehance!
Simpson! I'll teach you to make a Poupon "me!"
We've got what we need -- Milhouse, bring them in.
We've all read it.
Hmmmm... Milhouse, change of plan -- observe and follow.
Denied.
He'll be somewhat missed.
Whom do we send now?
Lord, give me guidance. That's right, the guidance department -- detention room. Thank you, Mrs. Lord.
No deal.
The bake sale!
Okay, you have a deal, you conniving little...
Used as a noun it is.
Yes, of course -- I think we can wrangle you a used bicycle. Do you prefer Schwinn or Huffy? Bart? Where did he-- My car keys!
Yes, yes, yes. We have to do something. Although, the basketball hoops have been retracted... D.J. Funtimes has already cashed his deposit... And Superintendent Chalmers won't be happy to hear...
Um... that uh... bake sale revenue projections are through the roof.
Possibly, but I can't risk Superintendent Chalmers finding out about--
Um... about how early press coverage of the bake sale is uniformly positive.
Thank goodness this crisis was averted. Nicely done, Lisa.
I shall.
Dr. Bart.
Well, it seems someone was riding the giant tortoise naked.
You can't impound my spirit!
Lisa, if you like, I'm certified to conduct a mock father-daughter conversation.
You know, a principal's dream would be to have a school with nothing but Lisa Simpsons. Unfortunately, the rest of you exist.
From her grade grubbing to her apple polishing...
And now the reason we're all here today... Lisa Simpson!
That's terrific, but I called you here to discuss your son's misbehavior on the school bus.
May I have a clean American newspaper, please, no "Doonesbury?"
I guess a little peek won't hurt me.
Nooo!
Students, I'm afraid I have some bad news. The coolest student in school, Milhouse Van Houten, is leaving us.
He and his uncle, who is also very cool, will be returning to Solvang forever... via hot air balloon.
Nelson!
There's being right and there's being nice.
What about the media? They're not covering the issues, they just want to declare a frontrunner and go back to their mansions.
"Air Skinner" brings it up. He bounces the ball repeatedly, in a dribbling-type motion.
Foul!
Nope, I grant you five more fouls.
Thank you, children. Welcome to the unveiling of our new school lunch purchasing plan, known as the Flex Plan.
Students may spend up to ten points per day in up to four of seven categories. Unused points roll over week to week, but not month to month. Categories not included: meat, dairy, vegetables...
That's odd.
But, as a one-time occurrence, no cause for alarm.
It's not funny! These movements are involuntary!
Who did this? Until I find out, no one is leaving this mixed-use auditorium.
When I catch the culprit, and I will, I'm gonna throw this away...
And use this instead!
Young man, my office, now!
Young man, brace yourself...
For some congratulations!
We did it! You're in!
By law, the most we can give him is a ten day suspension.
All our other attempts to get a spy inside the Bart Simpson operation have failed. Uter, Ralph, Doug the hip guidance counselor... he's never been the same since Bart got through with him.
Uh-oh, here he comes. Now this won't be easy, but pretend I'm a jerk.
Young man, I'm gonna be on you like a numerator on a denominator!
One whistle!
Two whistles! I'm one whistle away from three whistles, people!
Say Simpson, would you mind holding one end of this banner while I put it up?
Where do you think you're going?
I will, but it's because I want to.
Too cute, too tall, too Siamese, too Siamese...
Sorry to plop, plop on your fizz, fizz.
I knew egging my house was just a ploy. You see, the rat who told you about my rat was also a rat.
And it's all thanks to Donny here, who can happily live the rest of his life knowing he betrayed the one boy who actually cared about him.
I'm all right, sir.
Martin Prince was known by many names: Martin Priss, Martin Princess, Fartin' Prince, Martin the Brown-Nosed Reindeer...
Martin was a shy, awkward child who will never fulfill his promise to become a weird, unloved adult. The Audio-Visual Club has prepared a video tribute to their fallen associate.
Shut up! Shut up! This is a spoiler-free zone!
Agreed. The film has everything -- emotion, conflict, Milhouse! Lisa, you're a gifted filmmaker. It's as if Ingmar Bergman and Penny Marshall had a baby.
Cinema is my secret passion. I've even written a screenplay or two "on speculation."
When Edna Met Seymour... "Ghost Willie"... "Killing Seymour's Mother"... "The Principal Who Sold A Screenplay"...
Unfortunately, the studios have made it clear they're not interested in my work. In fact, I'm... I'm no longer welcome on the Universal Studios tour.
There's one in Hollywood?!
Forget grades! With the right subject, you could be a great filmmaker. What comes to mind when you think of drama?
Not the smarty-pants answer. Where's the drama in your life?
No! In your life!
Family, eh? That's right, your brother is Bart Simpson, one of Mrs. Krabappel's fourth graders. And your father is a local character of note.
Lisa, if you make a documentary about your family, I can help you.
I'm giving you... the key to the A.V. cage.
All I ask is, if you ever win an Oscar... give it to me.
Those cabinet makers laughed at me, but they'll see.
Yes, Superintendent Chalmers?
Please sir, I can explain...
Well, with some school band music and added effects, we could show Lisa's film at the public library.
You mean... Banff?
Sundance, the preeminent independent film festival held each January in Park City Utah?
Uh, we're with them.
He's a... he's a...
Well, if we can't get into Sundance, would you like to check out its alternative cousin, Slam Dance?
We're prepared to accept anything!
We want ten percent of the first-dollar gross, full European distribution rights, and access to the most exclusive VIP tent in Sundance.
They don't even know that my pockets are full of bottled water and cornbread!
Seymour Skinner never puts all his eggs in one basket. That's why they call me "Two Basket" Skinner. What? They do.
Well, did you read my script?
Pass.
We'll see you on the set.
Another hit!
Just wait for dessert, sir. I made it with you in mind.
Out of gas! But how?! I put a dollar in this morning and we've only driven ninety cents.
I did it!
What is in this coffee?!
I understand. It can be very difficult for a woman to propose marriage. But I am willing to go halvsies on a ring.
Splendid! Shall we discuss music, or the weather?
She wants to break up?
With me?
Gee. Compared to you, my life is one big half-day!
Thanks, Homer. I don't think the school pep squad could've cheered me up more. And they were state runners up in nineteen ninety-seven!
You called?
My mistake.
You called?
My mistake.
Men. The room for me!
Mr. and Mrs. Simpson, we need to talk about Lisa. She's unfocused, scribbling nonsense, living in a world of her own.
We're talking about Lisa, your daughter.
Ah yes, the one I've seen on Lisa's Facebook page.
I search all the children's Facebook pages for unflattering references to me. By the way, I enjoyed the photos of your trip to Yosemite.
Welcome to another school year. One important note: the flower-based names of the reading groups are now barnyard-based. Mr. Becker has protested the move, so his group will remain the Daffodils.
I never tire of that. Uh, one other announcement, at the end of the month we'll be participating in the Vice-President's Assessment Test.
We're assessing you, not him.
The V.P.A.T. is part of the Federal Government's "No Child Left Alone Act." It'll be a rewarding day of pencil sharpening and eyes-on-your-own-paper-keeping...
So, when you take your practice test, take your number two pencil and...
Number two. Take a number two.
Yes, quite so. As you can see, I'm holding a big number two in my hands, enjoying the weight and feel of it.
Bart, we need to talk to you about your practice test.
You got a perfect score!
Bart, you and the other perfect-scoring "Superstars" are exempt from taking the actual test today.
Take it away, Willie.
Brilliant plan to remove all the underperformers for test day, sir.
Well, I'd best retrieve them.
Sir?
I can't believe it. Superintendent Chalmers betrayed me. After all the wrapping paper I bought from his daughter.
Let me explain this to you in terms even the simplest will understand. We're hiding you in Capital City for the day so your numb-skullery won't drag down the test scores of the children who are our future.
For your information, I am not a loser! I'm a successful principal who paints houses in the summertime.
Your dad insisted I use an inferior primer!
Otto, can you pull over? Pull over!
Ralph, are you almost finished?
All right, now we can get back on the bus and on...
I guess I could use an affectionate homage.
All right, stay calm, boys. Oh God! We're at the corner of Cesar Chavez Way and Martin Luther King Boulevard!
My name isn't Skinrash, it's Principal Skinner, and you will address me as such.
I'll deal with your insubordinate wordplay later. My first duty is to get you boys to safety and that's... where's Ralph?
Bart, do you have your slingshot?
I see it in your back pocket.
I was once a boy. And like all boys...
Shut up! A child is in danger under my aegis!
Run, Ralph! Run!
Time to do what I've never done as principal: something.
I am not spazzing out -- I'm using the principle of conservation of angular momentum to turn the container.
We do teach it in school! You're too busy eating sugar snacks and horsing around!
"...But I reckon I got to light out for the Territory ahead of the rest, because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me and civilize me, and I can't stand it. I been there before."
This test is a joke!
Today I received an education in how children really learn: by seeing their principal run around on top of a shipping container.
So children, put down your answer sheet and drop that number two!
Yes, I know what that means -- I've learned so much today! This is my school and I'm throwing out the test!
And finally, effective immediately, I'm overturning this school's ban on dancing.
Because we do our sleuthing in Mother's Nissan Quest Minivan.
Never!
You see, legend has it that on her deathbed, Saint Teresa of Avila had a vision of a jewel that would usher in an era of peace and harmony...
She dispatched a team of nuns to the New World to seek this fabulous gem...
They landed at what is now Philadelphia...and used the timbers of their ship to construct a convent.
The order flourished, never forgetting its sacred mission. But word about the gem got out...and a group of high-ranking Freemasons, led by Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, and King George the Third, staged a phony war of "independence" to cover their search for the gem.
Fleeing the violence, the nuns of Saint Teresa's left the colonies and settled here in Springfield.
I see it too. Let's, uh, head that way. We'll walk, or drive, to... the obvious solution.
Oh, the word "ring!"
Great crimes kill holy sage? The puzzle is solved! We must warn the holy sage at once!
We could make it if we took Mr. Burns's helicopter.
Deal.
The Sprinkle King, Sprinkle Queen, and Deluxe Sprinkle King are the Simon and Garfunkel plus one of hose-nozzle dispersal arrays. Observe.
Shh. Don't tell him I'm here.
Hear that? He thinks my Try 'N' Save brand Shush Mutts are genuine Hush Puppies.
We've got the "how" , and we've got the "who" , but we don't have the "why."
Milhouse, you realize, if you're suspended, you'll be missing... taco Wednesday.
Crunchy shell, ground beef, lettuce, mild sauce... and of course, shredded cheddar cheese!
Consider yourself suspended, mister. Willie, take him to the big house -- where he lives.
Lisa, your outburst was either a sign of deep emotional imbalance, or a passionate response to a sobering truth. Luckily, the treatment for both is intensive therapy.
Oh, I don't know. But when you go, could you return this Sports Illustrated for me?
Someone must've, uh, put it in my bag. They do that, you know. They're always putting things in my bag!
Simp-son!
Washington Monument? Aren't you gonna even try?
I'm your son's principal, and the Washington Monument is the most uninspired model choice there is. It's like saying "I don't care. My kid's a loser."
Welcome to Springfield Elementary's Next Top Model... building contest.
Now judges, start your nodding!
Mrs. Simpson, let me pour you a drink.
Scotch? Vodka? Gin? I've got everything you want.
Hey, I want the "check engine" light on my dashboard to shut off, but that ain't gonna happen.
Ahhh.
Wait! Don't matriculate those students!
We need Lisa Simpson at Springfield Elementary. She's our top student and she writes the fun facts in the morning announcements!
Superintendent Chalmers?! What are you doing at... another school?!
So... you're over-seeing other people?
What am I supposed to tell our children?
Edna, let's go.
You made quite a nanny goat of yourself yesterday!
This is the hardest thing I've ever had to do. But I'm letting you go.
Here, take my hanky.
I'm working on my magic act for the Faculty Follies. But right now I don't feel much like follying.
Of course.
There's a form to extend your health insurance on my desk.
Bart, you deserve a reward for telling the truth, and that reward will be in the form of a severe punishment.
Sorry, Bart. But I can't just get rid of a teacher if he's doing a good job. Or an adequate job. Or just shows up and doesn't touch anyone.
What the-- faculty lounge talk out in the halls?
Bart, you said you didn't get him drunk.
Children! Fingers in your ears and makes the "la-la" sound.
La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la... La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la... La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la...
In order to save money, the following presidents will no longer be taught: Buchanan, Fillmore, Pierce, Bush, Bush... could you please stop that?
I'm well aware of the situation.
Lisa Simpson?! In detention?! My horoscope told me I'd see something interesting today, but I thought that meant the horoscope itself!
Standing up for yourself to an older boy? We're gonna have to set up an appointment with your parents.
And after this, it will be featured in the fifth-grade play "The Crucible"!
I've got one! Springfield El...bow Macaroni Factory.
Uh, well, I just thought, uh... specialization being the wave of the future... uh, probably...
No.
Actually...
...It's called "curling." Players slide the heavy stones toward the circle, or "house..."
...as teammates control the direction and speed of the stone by sweeping in front of it with a special broom.
Maybe you'd like to give it a try?
Bart, my cargo pants indicate that I'm not here on school business. I'm here on "cool" business, i.e. curling.
Astonishing news out of Eau Claire, Wisconsin: the Olympic Committee has announced that Mixed Curling will be a Demonstration Event at the Winter Olympics!
Mmm, that'd be great.
Someone has to convert that kinetic energy back into potential!
Yes, that involuntary pre-conscious reflex I made in utero was unforgivable.
That stone is coming in like a rocket! It's gotta be going four, maybe five miles an hour!
I was not bald! My fontanel was covered by lanugo!
Really, mother? You mean that?
My Kia!
One of your best, Ralph. Next up, we have Simpson, L.!
These are Bart's uncompleted homework assignments for the last month: worksheets, problem sets, book reports, math jumbles, dioramas, topic sentences, conclusions, bibliographies, synonyms, mean-the-sames, define-a-likes, word twins and one Thanksgiving hand-turkey.
Ah, a peaceful Saturday afternoon, with no Bart Simpson -- and no Milhouse, for that matter. Nothing on my agenda but to sit here and watch hummingbirds.
Sugar water? Now why would someone...
Their tiny tongues are like knives!
Big mistake, attacking me outside school hours and property! Legally, I can spank your bare bottoms!
You can't hide forever and I'm a very patient man! I once waited an hour and a half for a haircut.
The school is saved! Unfurl the flag!
Mrs. Krabappel had to go to Portland. Apparently, the people she hired to de-program her sister from that cult turned out to be an even worse cult.
Not you. Never you. And due to budget cuts, until Edna comes back, I have no choice but to merge the school's two fourth-grade classes.
Marge, Homer, this is Brody and Madison McKenna. Bart has been sharing a desk with their daughter Nikki.
All right, here it is.
Attention all students. Please report to an attorney-mandated school assembly. To make time for this, the third grade's performance of "My Fair Lady" is cancelled.
I'm Bart Simpson. Disruptive fourth-grader.
Shut up, fatso.
So the lesson is, children...
Let's quickly prod him to the curb with this pool skimmer.
Nikki, no! I prefer a dead child to a lawsuit from your parents!
Hm. Could that be some sort of narcotics transaction?
I see you're impressed by my costume for the school's annual drug awareness assembly.
No.
Mrs. Simpson, Bart has always been what we educators term a "Nogoodnik," but lately his behavior has taken a more sinister turn.
We're low on funding, so Ralph Wiggum will be standing in as your lectern.
Excuse me. The podiums are needed in the art room as easels.
Good morning, children. Today we are instituting shortened school hours.
Eh. At least they're learning their fractions.
Seriously? Why? With Nelson gone, lunch money's finally making its way to the cafeteria. Nurples are returning to their natural, non-purple hue. Besides, I hear he's doing quite well with his bicycle pimpery.
Eleven dollars an hour? That's night watchman money. Maybe I should have a chat with him.
Which of these ties says "confidence?"
It's a conversation starter! Lisa, this conversation is over. It's not you I'm trying to impress, it's Nelson. I know he likes the sleeveless look...
I heard about it first.
This epoxy you've been using is water soluble.
Which means that it's not weather-resistant.
Uh... bike, sticky, water go bye-bye?
All bye-bye.
You can't break us up. We're like a family here.
Kearney and I are having brunch on Sunday.
Fifty dollars! I can buy paint for the art class instead of crushed-up berries I find in the woods!
She's the only Springfield Elementary alum ever to advance to the Ivy League!
Quite so! Just take a look at her yearbook.
Wonderful year.
Yes it was.
Buying those extra trophies from cash-strapped schools really filled out the old case.
Oh indeed. Your mother was as fine a student as you.
Keep up the good work and you'll probably wind up just like her.
Lisa, one of the hardest jobs I have is throwing cold water on young children's dreams.
Ralph, you're not a kangaroo.
The point is, I've learned a lot about human nature by sitting in the park with mother. And one thing I've learned is children turn out like their parents. Behold, your future!
Ralph, you're also not a trophy.
You yell at me about everything.
What about Willie?
Well Bart, I guess his parking spot is yours now.
Well done.
Every day since we broke up is the greatest day of my life.
P.S., Chalmers and I are doing it.
Mr. and Mrs. Simpson, Bart has been very sad lately.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no! Please don't do anything. Not only have his grades gone up, but the enthusiasm has gone out of his pranks.
I mean, take a look at this. If anything, I was wondering if you could make him sadder.
Marge, Homer, this marital discord is perfect. But please, save it for home where your son could see it.
You know, if they do this regularly, maybe it could count as gym.
No, I have two identical sets of these clothes.
Things aren't good at home.
We haven't met... but something terrible has happened... You misfiled the... permission slips. You keep the green... I need the white...
Strum... strum... strum...
Yes, well. I might have a crush on the music sub, Ms. Juniper.
Leave with you? I'll have to check with mother.
Simpson, here's my plan. Ms. Juniper is divorced, and her daughter Melody is in the third grade.
Well, if you took "space case" on a date... and brought me to chaperone along with her mother...
How would you like two weeks of spring break?
No, if... if the state finds out they'll shut us down!
Deal.
You know, passion has always been a passion of mine.
Uh, something else about me is that I'm thinking of becoming an excellent cook.
What? Here? Right next to the Nacho-cano?
You do? But why? I mean... but why?
I'M WALKING ON SUNSHINE / NOT LITERALLY / IT MEANS THAT I'M HAPPY / POST-COITALLY / IT WAS ON A SCHOOL NIGHT!
Gary... Gary, you know what you need?
A little... honey in your yogurt.
Thanks to you, Melody's mother is so upset, she's moving them out of town!
Calliope, is there anything I can say to make you stay?
Well, it, it, uh... took place in a country we teach about.
Well, it could have been a day, it could have been the rest of my life.
It was only a day.
Groovy.
Sir, would you be my wingman?
One thing -- what if there's a woman we both like?
What if I see her hand at the same time you see her face?
Bart, eyewitnesses to your fight described you as "berserkoid," "totally aggro," and said you punched Milhouse "like fifty billion times." That's an excessive number of times.
What's bothering you, son?
Thank God. I don't want to either.
They never think to look behind the Jazz-Fest Poster.
Children, I hope we all have a pleasant and orderly day here at "Satan's Anvil." No one knows why the early settlers called it that, and I suppose we never will.
Now remember to stay hydrated, and--
Rattlesnake!
And the one year I didn't, I was bitten by an actual rattlesnake.
I was gonna lose my foot.
Lisa, we have to go. Milhouse found a hippie skeleton and he's freaking out.
They're Tums, for my acid reflux.
If you go on a field trip, don't break off from the group.
I am your substitute teacher, Sister Mary Elephant. Class, attention, attention, class, class -- shut up! Thank you.
Really? But Sister Mary's no-nonsense attitude is what inspired me to become an educator.
Well, I guess as long as I fold it afterward and don't display it at night... Oh, perhaps I should improvise, or "do an improv?"
Oh, I'll get my prop trunk!
A lot of people have cell phones, but I like to eat healthy. So I invented... the celery phone! Hello? Hello?
Mother, how did you get this number -- it's a prop phone! Yes, I have your celery... I took the limpest stalk there was!
Dave is here! Man.
Yes, but I'm funnier than the cocktail napkins.
Yes, but there're two k-sounds in "cocktail."
I decided to put family over career.
I don't know what to think about milk cans anymore.
Hm, I can't find my car.
That Theremin has paid for itself again and again.
Nelson, either tell them what they're having for lunch, or get off the P.A.
Mother, it is my birthday, not our anniversary!
Mother, I have work to do. Well, it's work if they pay you! They say they're going to!
Lisa, I know every moldy inch of this unaccredited school. But I have never seen such a thing as you describe.
Well, I have a very busy schedule, but...
Myra, cancel all my appointments!
Very true.
Okay, let's go.
One Thousand and One Vulgar Marching Band Formations.
Truly these band books deserve to be banned.
Lisa, Lisa... go home, relax, try to do some kid things. You know, with a ball or something... or decorate your sneakers with a "Magic"-brand marker.
Lisa Simpson may be onto us.
And nothing to hide. I'll just take that key back now.
Sir, this bus is too heavy to cross the ice bridge. They'll have to take a more circuitous route.
I can't find the key!
Yes. My car key.
Yes. Quite a bit.
I suppose you want to know why this all happened. Picture what I'm describing in your minds.
Years ago we received a government grant to improve the school. Unfortunately, I cashed it...and the money was in my pants when mother did the laundry.
But these pants were good for another day.
I'm the boss of my own laundry!
If we didn't get them back by five, we'd be charged for the extra day.
Abandon gym!
We planned for the wedding cake, we just didn't see the baby thing coming.
How could I? She wasn't even born yet.
Well done, the band. We're all bursting with pride after our girls' basketball team beat Shelbyville two-nothing in triple overtime! Now let's make some noise!!! Using our INSIDE VOICES!
Please welcome Springfield Elementary's own Lady Pumas!
No team? I guess I just have to give you all an hour of free play.
Excellent! Free play cancelled!
Edna, control your student! He's ruined more assemblies than the afternoon sun in the west window!
That's crazy talk!
Edna, we can tolerate mild alcoholism, leaving melted cheese in the microwave, even selling A's for cigarettes. But in laying a hand on a student, you have crossed a line.
Nurse, get a slap kit.
I'm afraid it's not quite that simple.
They never seem to like that analogy.
We made sweet music in the band room, poetry during English class, and you don't wanna know what we did in the multi-purpose room.
Now wait just a minute! How come I wasn't an option in this contest?
And now it's time for lights, camera, auction! No cameras!
Ooh, first item up for bid is... always a favorite, lunch with Principal Skinner!
I'll just leave the food on your doorstep and ring the bell.
Moving on. Next up for auction is this wonderful bench hand-crafted by our second-grade class.
Do I hear fifty dollars?
Hello? Calling from England? Certainly I can put you on speakerphone.
Sold! To the mysterious and unverified Mrs. Knickertwist! Next item: our school band will play at a function of your choice!
Well, it looks like our model solar-system will finally get an Earth!
...annnd that concludes tonight's auction, which has raised a school record one hundred and sixteen thousand dollars!
And our windfall is all thanks to our dear new friend on the phone.
I've got a bad feeling about this.
Why do I believe everything I hear in a British accent?
Mr. Simpson, I know you're not one of our wealthier parents, but surely you'll honor your son's enormous debt.
Yes sir?
Really?
I'll have you know I'm lop-shouldered.
I said, I'm lop-shouldered! And I have been since I was hung by my armpits in a North Vietnamese prison!
Oh the list of things you don't know could fill a week's worth of morning announcements, with enough left over for a send-home flyer!
If you think it's so easy to handle Bart Simpson, why don't you do it yourself?!
While I'm on a roll I'm gonna call that carpet cleaning service and tell them our hallway doesn't count as a room! Hello, is André there? Oh yes, I'll hold!
How did she know we get paid in pesos?
Bart, open this door now -- or I will jiggle the handle indefinitely!
Damn! Willie, break it down!
Oh my God! We've got a thirty-year mortgage on that photocopier! Willie, stay your tractor!
No hard feelings?
And wine from their own grapes.
It's a little bad!
What a wonderful science fair. Unfortunately, due to budget cuts we could not afford our third place ribbon. Now, in Second Place, Lisa Simpson's grim description of our short-sighted dependence on fossil fuels.
First Place goes to Bart Simpson and Martin Prince...
...for creating a furry robotic friend who provides comfort when humans fail to, which they will, trust me.
And they're set at a place kids relate to. Say, a school.
No thanks, gentlemen, I've got a nice quiet life here, and I mean to keep it that way.
The refrigerator could have my magnets on it.
I'm in.
But it's actually magic!
Trolls live under bridges -- the school should be under a bridge! The Brooklyn Bridge!
"...and so, Lucinda placed the fifth shard in the stained-glass window, which now clearly read: 'your parents are alive.' Gregor turned to his twin sister and they both understood: their journey was just beginning. The end."
Here it is: an advance copy.
It was the singular vision of seven people.
They can't do this to us -- we've gotta fight back!
Bart, remember the thousand-year war between the trolls and the ogres?
Now it's a dance contest at the vampire prom.
This is the Fuzzlepitch Finals, and tonight, we drink from the Wazzle Cup!
Hello, I'm the pizza delivery man.
No, of course you didn't. The establishment I work for delivers pizzas to everyone, and then gives the customer the option of accepting or refusing delivery.
No, no, it's quite sound.
Pizza?
I wish my dates were this interesting.
Doggone it. I'm less popular than the hornet's nest in the gym.
We trade the honey for chalk and yardsticks.
Better than wasp honey, not as good as bee.
So now you know, pranks do not pay.
Simpson!
Don't blame me. You killed the fun, fun-killer.
I'm sure someone will come back to tell me where they went. If I go inside they might not find me.
Bless you, boy!
Ow!
Ow! Ow!
It's nice to be wanted.
Attention, students. In order to cut down on the rash of embarrassing YouTube videos of our teachers, we will be scanning you and taking away your smartphones.
I administer with this nose!
Edna, as the runner-up in the race for your heart, I would like to make a toast.
My Dearest, let me be the first to offer you the hearty handshake that would've climaxed our own wedding day--
I tied them together with used dental floss as per your memo!
Children, your test scores are down because we've been having so many assemblies, you haven't had time to study. This assembly will remedy that.
We've invited a few friends over to give you some "musical cues."
They still have to sign their names properly so we're not totally out of the woods.
My rival.
Now let's turn to the ever-unpopular "Popularity Awards" -- the awards voted by students, in judgment of their peers! No way that can go wrong! First up, Campus Clown...
Bart Simpson!
And now the award for "Least Popular Student." Lisa Simpson!
You probably should accept it, Lisa. They'll go easier on you if you do.
I know very little about children.
What fun!
I need to know what's up with Lisa. If her grades drop, we're not technically a school -- we're a tornado shelter with voting booths.
Nothing exceptional here. Except -- blue reinforcements.
Only one person I've ever known uses these: my predecessor, Principal Meredith Milgram.
Follow me, but be warned: there's no permission slip for what we're doing.
Thank God we brought the bus driver.
Taking four children across town to investigate a piece of paper we found on the ground.
Sadly, no.
Uh, we do not. Outmoded, no room in the budget, and all the teachers forgot how to make a capital "Q."
It's just you and me tonight, Buttermilk.
Whoa. Howdy, pardners, I'm much obliged to y'all for comin' out to the ol' corral here--
Fine, we'll start the raffle and skip the things no one wants, like art projects by your children.
Or a spaghetti dinner...with the Van Houtens.
So let's get right to the item I'm sure you're waiting for: the latest Mapple MyPad!
And the winner is...
...Homer Simpson!
The proctors are here!
So you're saying if our kids don't pass this test, you're shutting down Springfield Elementary?
How is that useful?
Ow!
Their leader seems to be a woman.
When will they finish grading those tests!
Even mushroom risotto?
So, how did we do?
Oh, thank God!
Why did you say that to us in the meanest way you could?
Except what?
In art school he'd be a genius.
We tried to have ourselves accredited as one, but no one here could... draw the pirate.
Children, Groundskeeper Willie will direct you to your new school district. Any correlation to your talents, needs or friends is completely coincidental.
I have an aunt named Hope. Perhaps you'd like to kill her as well.
Bart, I'm begging you to try and study.
You can spin in my chair!
Well, I guess a little circular grinding might relax me.
You really didn't study?
So you know what osmosis is!
Let me make this crystal clear to you, Simpson, if you don't pass this test, it will destroy the school.
Our entire school riding on that coffee can head of yours. We've got to get you more time to study. But how?
What to do? What to do?
Children, remain calm... find your disaster buddy... which is different from your lab partner, but may be the same as your lunchroom buddy.
Save your analogies for the analogy portion of the exam.
I bought you time, boy. Don't blow it.
Pass this test and the eggs are on me.
Please, have a little faith.
Stop that ball!
No!
It would actually be the only meat in said Joe.
I know this is highly illegal, but you're not leaving this booth till you punch "yes."
There's no one for miles.
Children, you can stop writing letters of support to our troops. That was just busy-work.
Now I want to explain Miss Hoover's absence. She is suffering from severe depression.
Not to worry, she has been treated with heavy doses of...Lorazepam and other drugs from the...Benzodiazepine family.
Now until Miss Hoover returns, this class will be getting a permanent substitute.
Lisa, without corporate sponsorship, we wouldn't be able to teach you the three R's: reading, refreshment and Raspberry Buzz Lite. Get your razz on!
Meet your new teacher, Ms. Cantwell. Do not call her by the obvious dirty nickname. Now I must meet with the new art teacher Mr. Testaclese.
Not now, I'm dealing with Mr. Testacleese.
Look, kids can be cruel, Dick.
That's right. We...
You should never tell on a bully, Lisa. Everyone knows that.
You showed up before the students! That's all we asked!
I'm afraid once a youth court has been demanded, we are legally obligated to shut down mob rule, as decided in the case of "Rubber v. Glue" and reaffirmed by "I Know You Are v. What Am I."
Over the next few days, you're going to hear how the defendant, Bartholomew Simpson, a/k/a the "Springfield Egger..."
...how Bartholomew Simpson wantonly egged this town with Milhouse aforethought.
No Ma'am! Sneakers!
Oh God, the press is gonna have a field day with this.
You'd make up any lie for that Simpson boy, wouldn't you?
Nelson?
The prosecution calls everyone in the world!
Mr. Szyslak, what name did the defendant ask for when he called you at your bar?
And then what did you say?
Take all the time you need.
Thank you for your bravery today.
We have a school full of professionals, sir.
Certainly not I. It would change the way my suits fit.
Go on.
Well, I am gonna write a note back to Mr. Muntz.
Sorry about that. So, Mrs. Simpson, the reason you're here...
Resusci-Kate is just fine, thank you.
We're here to talk about Bart.
Today, I am not here to talk about what he did. I'm here to talk about the future.
I'm not sure what he's planning, although there is a lot of internet chatter. I want to change his character: less Dennis the Menace, more Casper the Ghost, if he were still alive.
What if Bart took music lessons? Music lessons could channel his destructive impulses into artistic expression. I myself have been taking flamenco lessons.
Mother!!!
I assure you, we've spared no effort to accommodate your special-needs student.
You wait here while I go get the jumper cables.
Really, mother?
So, Kent, what brings you here? The miraculous tale of how we lost, then found, our Lost and Found box?
I thought this was a puff piece! You're wearing a sweater!
No, do not make room! Except for Mr. Largo and his diet, there is no cheating in this school.
Um... Myra, don't I have another appointment?
Please don't air this. I'll tell you the winners of the kickball games in advance -- you can make a lot of cabbage betting on k-ball.
Noooooo!
Please, calm down, everyone! You know, maybe this so-called cheating scandal is actually an opportunity... to, uh, initiate a dialogue... that would, uh, create a teachable moment... uh, something something buzz word, I got nothing.
I did it! I saved the day! The same way I won that battle in Vietnam! By fainting!
They're doing it! They're self-proctoring!
The answer, sadly, is not yes.
It's amazing. Every day has the peace and serenity of a flu outbreak.
Lisa, I'm afraid you've gotten all the extra credit we can give out. So Willie has been growing you a nice pumpkin.
It's called "precipitation," because it never fails to precipitate unruly behavior.
...doomed to get only single pneumonia.
I must say, Lisa, it was amusing to see you thoroughly de-high-horsed.
Oooh, back on the saddle she climbs.
A little rich for my blood, sir.
Good morning. We have completed the tally of the votes for Class Representative.
One brief announcement, the tainted Greek salad has given several students nightmares involving Michael Dukakis.
It may recur tonight, so if possible, have your parents strap you to the bed.
And now the results. First Grade Rep: results delayed indefinitely due to jelly on the ballots. Second Grade Rep: Isabel Gutiérrez.
Third Grade Rep, no votes cast. Fourth Grade Rep, last name Wiener, first name, Ima... Simpson!
SKINNER! / YOU SURE LOOK GOOD IN CHAPS... SKINNER...
Children, I have some exciting news.
I'm here to tell you about a field trip so amazing we've put "sign here" stickers on the permission slips.
As you recall these stickers came from last year's field trip to the "sign here" sticker factory. But thanks to my old navy buddy -- we both love to shop at Old Navy...the students of this school will be taking a ride on a nuclear-powered, attack-class submarine -- the U.S.S. Tom Clancy!
So you're all excited, eh?
Well that's too bad, because many of you will not be going.
There is limited room on the submarine, so only the best-behaved students...as determined by me...will go on the trip.
To increase the tension, everyone starts with a clean slate. But from this moment on...
I am the law. I hold the red pen.
Pranks, inside use of outside voice, off-color whistling, and you're stricken from the list. And once crossed off, you stay crossed off. That's what pens do.
Gum on the floor. Off the list.
Unauthorized meat-a-pult. Off the list.
Lips touching the fountain. Off the list.
Excuses are like handkerchiefs -- everybody's got one.
Off the list!
Not bad, Simpson. Did you wash your knees?
Off the list!
Off the list.
Muddy footprints on the school floor.
I've broken a ten-year-old's spirit. Time to celebrate... with a fruit-on-the-bottom yogurt.
Plain, plain, plain, plain, fruit!
No, mother, I did not use any of your talc. I don't know why the bottle feels lighter. Maybe you're just getting stronger!
Some days I could just kill you.
She heard me? Hello?
Is this a prank?
Of course.
Nice job, Simpson. You even got my Suze Orman tape unstuck from the cassette player. She's the reason I was able to purchase a new watch band.
Sorry, Simpson. Take her down!
No, no, no, no, nooo!
I'll be right there! Just saying goodbye to mother! Seymour! I'm going out for a walk! See you in several months at the soonest!
All right, I'll come clean. I woke up and, surprisingly, mother wasn't there beside me. She was dead.
Still, I can't be sure I killed her.
Um, where's the body?
I wish you'd asked me before you...
No! No! God no!
If this were a movie mother wouldn't let me watch it.
Oh, come on. I don't look anything like this... "Dick Fiddler."
I don't want to sound ungrateful, but could I eat one of the potatoes?
I understand.
Gentlemen, I can't run away from what I've done. I accept that I killed my mother. My whole life she's belittled me! Maybe deep down... I'm glad.
Mother! You're alive?!
How is that possible?
Can the Esperanto Society be far behind? I mean... Ĉu la Esperanto-Societo esti multe malantaŭ?
Ĝi estas vera. Mi tre soleca.
One of our brightest and most meddlesome students called this meeting... somehow... to discuss an urgent menu matter. Lisa?
And now in order to thoroughly explore the issue, I'd like to play the first video that came up in my web browser when I typed in "G.M.O." plus "danger" plus "question mark".
Children, you're in for a treat. Today's assembly is devoted to a special kind of history.
Living history.
We have two guests who have come from Springfield!
Illinois! Eighteen fifty-eight! Please welcome, here to debate the important issues of the day, Stephen Douglas and Abraham Lincoln!
Well, certainly not a caring superintendent.
A contest? But, sir, we don't have any money to pay for prizes. We had to rent out our multi-purpose room to a Japanese-American social club.
So, from now on our cafeteria will only serve... delicious "Stuffwich's" heroes, hoagies, and torpedoes.
Sorry, Nelson. Poor boys such as yourself will go hungry. Now please welcome the star of "Stuffwich's" ads, who lost four hundred pounds eating only "Stuffwich" subs -- Ezra.
People, please! Martin has left the building. He had an orthodontist appointment.
Lisa? Lisa Simpson? You have ten seconds to get to the podium!
Our final contestant is Lisa Simpson, who was last seen leaving in tears.
But not in them?
And with that tardiness, you have at last crossed the boundary where I can legally apply physical discipline.
Willie! Cut me a switch!
It uh, broke on my buttocks.
Dammit! That's not even a swivel chair!
Skate! Skate! As fast as you can. / But I'll catch you, I'm the Principal Man! That's the kind of education you're missing.
Oh no! Uphill! The one place my car can't go.
Simpson! Smock up!
You will take art, you will enjoy art, and you will make something in a kiln your mother can use.
Classic wish-maker's mistake -- vague language.
Of course not. Doesn't work that way.
I'm not allowed to discuss that with fourth graders. Fifth grade, you get every dirty detail.
One, two, three... toss!
The eggs are supposed to be tossed between students, not at the principal. Once more and hurl!
We will do this until we get it right.
Look, do you want this to be your last school memory?
I'll bet your biggest hurdle was leaving your beloved hometown.
The winner is Bart Simpson!
Simpson!
...spreading the rumor that today's lunch would be served by a naked lady...
There's no hope for you, Simpson. You'll be locked in detention until you graduate to the penal system.
Stop laughing! I said "penal" not "penile".
It's not like you made me say "penis"!
I already felt the pride of energy independence!
Students, each one of you has been assigned the mandatory honor of contributing to the Springfield Time Capsule...where your arcana will lie dormant until the thirty-first century...and...
Right. Time capsule. Nelson. Give me something.
How about you, Bart? Let me guess, you forgot to bring something.
This is a public school!
So, Mr. Lassen, you began your career at Shelbyville Prep.
Mmm-hmmm. And then you entered the public system...
What scar?
Oh, I see you're left-handed... so that concludes my evaluation. Enjoy fourth grade.
Hand in your red pen.
I am not going to pass fingernail inspection tonight.
Welcome to "Bring Us Your Toilet Paper" night. Don't worry, none goes to Willie.
There's nothing in the rule book against it.
That's where I doodle.
It's a comic strip I do called "Bumble and Grumble." Grumble likes to yell, but deep down he loves Bumble like a son.
Wasn't that wonderful? And now, "Santas of Many Lands," as presented by the entire second grade class.
The fourth grade will now favor us with a melody, medley of holiday flavorites.
The fifth grade will now favor us with a scene from Charles Dickens' "A Christmas Carol".
You, there! No chewing gum on school grounds. In the trash can with it!
Oh? Where?
Umm... Whoever did this is in very deep trouble.
Good boy. Boys, let's see your hands.
Mmm-hmm... good... okay... Simpson?
Simpson, you and I are going to have a little talk.
Yes, in my office after school.
Send them in.
I caught your son defacing school property this morning. We estimate the damage at seventy-five dollars and, frankly, we think it's terribly unfair that other taxpayers should foot the bill.
That was the idea.
By itself something like this might not call for an extreme penalty...but this is not an isolated incident. Bart's behavior is unruly. He's frequently absent from school, then gives teachers pathetic excuse notes...that are obviously childish forgeries when compared to...
Well, at any rate, it is my reluctant decision --
Send him in.
Mr. and Mrs. Simpson, this our district psychiatrist, Dr. J. Loren Pryor.
Impossible.
I think we should re-test him.
Oh. Better yet.
I think we're all in a mood to celebrate.
Hello, kids. Everything above the board here? Good. Play friendly, children.
Uh, oh. There's your bell. Come along now, all of you.
No dawdling, now.
Oh, no no no. He'll get you after school, son. Now hurry up. It's time for class.
Scoot, young Simpson. There's learning afoot.
Yes, the school nurse did a wonderful job reconstructing his little face after the fight. Goodbye, son. I guess you were right. All that homework was a waste of your time.
And his kid, Bart.
Look. It's glorious
People, people, no rough-housing on the monkey bars. You there, tuck in your shirt. Watch it, I saw that.
Mother, please don't call me Spanky on school grounds.
'Morning, boys.
Well Mother, I would like you to meet, Milhouse, Lewis, Richard and... Bart Simpson.
Mmm-hmm.
Simpson! Let's move on now, Mother, shall we?
Okay, Mother. This way.
Now, hold it right there you...
Mother!
Hello, Mrs. Simpson. I'm afraid there's been a very disturbing incident at school today.
Mmm-hmm. I understand completely. The disturbing incident I was referring to happened this morning, when your son flushed an explosive device down the boys' lavatory.
Unfortunately, at the same moment, my mother was in the girls' lavatory making use of the facilities.
Mr. and Mrs. Simpson, we have transcended incorrigible. I don't think suspension or expulsion will do the trick. I think it behooves us all to consider... deportation.
Well, perhaps I was being a tad glib. Let me explain. Our elementary school participates in a foreign exchange program. Now normally, a student is selected on the basis of academic excellence or intelligence, but in Bart's case I'm prepared to make a big exception. And, if you're willing to play along, he can spend the next three months studying far, far away.
Actually, he'd be staying in France in a lovely chateau in the heart of the wine country.
Oh! When he's totally immersed in a foreign language, the average child can become fluent in weeks.
I'm sure he'll pick up enough to get by. And the whole thing won't cost you a dime as long you're willing to take in a student of your own.
Well, for one thing, you wouldn't be getting a French boy. You would be getting an Albanian.
No, no, no, no. A student from Albania. It's a country on the Adriatic Sea.
Mmm-hmm.
Way to go!
You may find his accent peculiar. Certain aspects of his culture may seem absurd, perhaps even offensive. But I urge you all to give little Adil the benefit of the doubt. In this way, and only in this way, can we hope to better understand our backward neighbors throughout the world.
People let's have good assembly manners. People, people. Quiet down, now, please. Don't make me flick the lights on and off. Thank you. Ladies, gentlemen, parents and music lovers. Welcome to the first in a series of Saturday evening concerts.
Tonight Sherbert's... ... uh, Schubert's Unfinished Symphony.
See me again tomorrow?
Then the day after that.
Gentlemen, according to my sources you are planning to simultaneously drop your pencils at 2:15 this afternoon. Do so and you will be suspended.
Say what they will about our cafeteria, I-I still think they're the best Tater Tots money can buy.
Wait a minute... that smells like sodium tetrasulfate bonding with chlorophyll!
Sweet Lord it is!
SIMPSON!!!
Bart, I'm flabbergasted. Surely you knew, as you were writing your own name in forty-foot-high letters in the field, that you would be caught.
There are no other Barts!
The sheer contempt demonstrated by this incident makes me wish I could pull the trusty board of education out of retirement.
Call your father immediately.
You'll do what, young man?
I think the real question is who is this and where is Homer Simpson?
I'm afraid this time the victims are the innocent blades of grass on Groundskeeper Willie's award-winning play field. If it's all right with you, Bart will repay his debt to society through back-breaking physical labor, re-sodding the field manually, seed by seed.
Only to my job.
Well, of course. These pants come off at night just like everyone else's. But tell me, why all the questions?
Well, a home-cooked meal would be a nice change of pace. I'd be delighted!
Well thank you, Bart. I only hope that for the next few hours you and I can leave our differences in the schoolyard.
Now, Simpson. I-I had a discomforting thought on the way over here. This dinner wouldn't be a master plan of yours to set me up with some unmarried relation? Because I can assure you that...
I... ah... muh... Be still my foolish heart.
Sel-ma.
Pat-ty.
So Patty, tell me more about your trip to Egypt.
Marvelous. Just marvelous.
Oh, yes. I've heard they can be difficult. Patty, the Parents Advisory Board has asked that I attend the premiere of Space Mutants Part 5 tomorrow night. Would you be interested in joining me?
Bart, you wouldn't happen to know what sort of candy your Aunt Patty likes, would you?
Very good. Now then, regarding your punishment... do you feel that you've learned your lesson?
Well, then, you are free to go.
"Two and Two are Four, Four and Four are Eight, Eight and Eight are Sixteen..."
Cherry cordials. I hope you like 'em.
Ah, excellent suggestion. I suggest we start with The Springfield Revolving Restaurant. You know, food tastes better when you're revolving.
Indeed. Truly terrible.
Indeed, truly terrible.
Well, well, well. If it isn't little Jimmy Pearson. Class of '71 I believe.
Pearson, get this woman a glass of water, immediately! And tuck in your shirt.
Nearly thirty and still working as a busboy. Standardized testing never lies.
Hmm.
Oh.. uh... sorry.
Hello, Dolly.
Oh, that was the worst film I've ever seen.
Isn't it nice we hate the same things?
The day after that, then.
Kiss me, Patty. I don't have cooties.
Until then!
I wish I could make a P.A. announcement to the whole world. Attention, everyone: Seymour Skinner is in love!
Simpson!
What is that there?
Ah... Bart, I hate to pull you away from your daily exercise, but ... well...
I wanted you to be the first to know. I'm going to ask for your Aunt Patty's hand in marriage.
I can't afford that! I'm an educator.
I'll take it!
You seem preoccupied tonight, my little... pudding cup.
Oh, well there's something up here that will pick up your spirit.
It's the second most precious jewel in this bell tower. Patty, the question before you is will you marry me?
Just say whatever's in your heart.
You love me! Caloo Calay!
But?
You have a special tie to your sister...
... that you couldn't leave your sister for any man. Oh.
See you again?
Farewell, my Pattycake.
Oh, Springfield Elementary! I will have you back again! After all, tomorrow is another school day!
Come on now. Oh.
Uh, I'll field that one. Lyme disease is spread by small parasites, called ticks. When a diseased tick attaches itself to you and begins sucking your blood,
Malignant spirochetes infest your bloodstream, eventually spreading to your spinal fluid, and on into the brain.
Come on, Elizabeth. Come, come.
Well now, children, here we are, open your primers to page 32.
Ah, substraction.
Bart Simpson... I know it's you.
No children, your not seeing things, this, my little friends, is a schwa.
Are you the substitute?
Are you insane?
Well, all right. Play friendly with your new teacher, children!
