Microbiology.
I don’t understand.
I know, I’m studying it.
Are you sure?
No.
Like in the bedroom or like Dungeons and Dragons?
No.
Not really.
I use them. I don’t like them.
A puppy once bit my face.
Are you going to answer it?
I know how you feel. My mother makes me crazy.
Oh, yeah? Does your mother call you every day at work to see if you’ve had a healthy lunch?
Okay, well, does she lay out your clothes for you in the morning like you’re nine years old?
No. That’s the sad part.
That’s nothing. I couldn’t ride a bicycle ’cause my mother was afraid I’d hit a bump and lose my virginity.
Not on a bicycle. In a Camry.
Oh!
I’d love some.
Why?
Okay, but only if you come to Sunday dinner at my house wearing a yarmulke.
I don’t really get it.
Can I ask you a question?
Where do you think this is going?
You’re so funny. You’re like a stand-up comedian.
Actually, I think a lot of them are Jewish.
Look, Howard, this is our third date and we both know what that means.
Sex.
But I need to know whether you’re looking for a relationship or a one-night stand.
Maybe you need to think about it a little.
Call me when you figure it out.
Hello, Howard.
I can’t now, I’m working.
Is this more comedy that I don’t understand?
So, this isn’t a joke?
Then you’re insane.
Howard, we’ve only been on three dates. We haven’t even had sex yet.
Wow.
Oh, thanks.
Oh, now what?
No, that’s okay.
Are you kidding? That’s the most romantic thing anyone’s ever done for me.
I don’t think I can. I don’t have Howard’s street cred.
What?
Why not?
He can’t sit somewhere else?
Ooh, I love your shoes.
Where’d you get them?
I’ve been meaning to go over there.
Don’t take him too seriously, a lot of what he says is intended as humour.
Me neither, but he just lights up when I laugh.
So, Leonard, Howard says you’re working on fundamental tests of quantum mechanics.
Oh, I find it fascinating. If I hadn’t gone into microbiology, I probably would have gone into physics. Or ice dancing.
That’s amazing.
Are you going to try to set up the voltages using tunnel junctions?
Oh, yeah, show me. In microbiology, the most exciting thing I get to work with is yeast.
Who are all those people?
Hi.
He doesn’t mean salt mines. He means where he works.
So, how’s your experiment going?
Boy, I’d love to see that.
Really? Oh, that’d be great. How exciting is that?
Do they have that?
Oh. You got me again. This isn’t non-fat yogurt, this is fatty fat fat. Excuse me.
Sure.
Howard?
It unhooks in the front.
I guess I should go.
You know, that one I got. Howard, did you say something to Leonard about me?
He says if I go see his experiment tomorrow it might weird you out.
You’re not jealous of Leonard, are you?
Are you saying I need to ask your permission to hang out with Leonard?
Hey, Leonard. Am I too late to see the experiment? Oh, hi.
What are you doing here?
No, you didn’t. You said Leonard’s experiment was stupid.
No, Leonard, you should hear this.
What do you think, Leonard? Should I give him another chance?
Come here, tushy face.
Raj, you should’ve seen Leonard’s experiment. The interference pattern was so cool when the electron beam was on.
Oh, yeah, I’m starved. When you spend all day in a bio-lab, watching flesh-eating bacteria skeletonize small rodents it really works up an appetite.
Oh, we’re way past second base. Right, Howard?
How’s your work going, Penny? Any acting jobs?
I’m sliding into third.
So, what should we talk about?
No, thank you.
Really uncomfortable.
Oh, my God, have you ever been so embarrassed?
I don’t know which was lamer, their roller-skating or their disco dancing.
When Howard tried to do the splits…
With marbles?
Sheldon, when was the last time you got any sleep?
Okay, Sheldon. What happens to our neuroreceptors when we don’t get enough REM sleep?
Which leads to…?
Right, so march in there, brush your teeth and go to bed.
I’m going to count to three. One…
I know how to deal with stubborn children. My mother used to run an illegal day care centre in our basement.
Thanks, Sheldon.
Hi, guys.
I believe you were about to rip off my uniform with your teeth.
Clearly you are. Otherwise, based on past experience, we’d be done by now.
What’s George Takei doing here?
She’s leaving because you really want to be with me.
Sorry, I had to clock out.
Okay. You know, busy, school, work. You?
Too bad.
Well, to be honest, I…
I’m okay.
No.
No, it’s fine.
What about you, have you been seeing anybody?
So you’ve been seeing other girls?
Does that mean slutty trolls?
Thank you.
I know. I work here.
Howard, you did have a real woman. I was right there in the next room while you were clicking that troll’s brains out.
Had sex?
Well, whose fault was that?
Well, we could’ve been having sex, but you never made the move.
Howard, a girl doesn’t go out with a man like you, with your looks, your fancy patter and your tight hoochie pants if she’s not expecting him to eventually make the move.
Really.
Me, too.
Mm! What are you doing?
Oh, not now. We’re starting a new relationship. I need to get to know you again.
Be patient, we’ll get there.
Oh, I take pacts very seriously. One time at my lab, a petri dish of genetically modified super-virus went missing. That day we made a pinky swear never to admit we crossed Ebola with the common cold.
We never did. That would be a terrible, terrible thing.
Joy, this is Leonard. Leonard, this is Joy.
Isn’t she a pip?
I’ll go with you.
Knock-knock.
Olive.
Oh, no. That movie has melting faces. It reminds me too much of the time I dropped that vial of flesh-eating bacteria into the Rhesus monkey lab. Besides, Penny and I are having a girls’ night tonight.
Oh, you know, girls get together, hang out, share girl talk.
Oh. Well, maybe you can join us. I’ll ask Penny.
You are?
Penny, your nails look great.
Or we could just stay here.
Gee, I don’t know if I should drink more. I have to drive home, and I’ve got enough trouble seeing over the dashboard as it is.
Oh, you never were?
You know what I really love about Howard? His chest hair.
No, just the one. But it’s really long.
Truth.
Um.
I thought it was pretty spicy. Especially the part where he kisses her nether yea.
Okay, my turn. Penny, truth or dare?
Why are you still hanging out with Leonard so much even though you broke up with him?
Yeah.
Yeah.
She’s been in there a long time.
Ooh, like what?
Where exactly on the Internet have you been looking?
I might have gone with eating raw cookie dough.
Knock-knock.
So where’s the telescope?
So we just sit and stare at the screen, waiting for something to happen?
Here we go.
Hold on. Wait. No, it’s okay, go ahead.
Oh, I was working with Penicillin-resistant gonorrhoea in the lab today and I was just trying to remember if I washed my hands.
It won’t help. Once he finds a joke he likes, he sticks with it.
Oh, right. Did you get your hair cut?
Which is still so funny.
Right. Help, I’m a prisoner in a Chinese fortune cookie factory.
Howard, help me out of the tub! I’m stuck again!
Well, live and learn. So, Raj, do you think this planet you’re looking for could have an atmosphere that supports life?
That sounds great.
He’s taking a turn to the dark side, isn’t he?
Oh, you poor, poor thing. Raj, you have to know you’re a wonderful man. There are a lot of girls out there who’ll want to kiss you.
You just have to look.
Well, this was fun.
Oh, thanks. Howard gave it to me. It’s the cutest thing. Every time I have dinner with his mom, the next day I get jewellery.
Hi.
He’s really cute. How do you know him?
Yes.
Couldn’t you just fool around with him and then listen to NPR?
It’s what I do with Howard. I’m much smarter than he is. But it’s important to protect his manhood.
What’s the matter?
I hope we get there in time to see the keynote address.
Yeah, it sounds fun. Super bacteria: global apocalypse or exciting research opportunity?
Really? And miss the keynote?
Well honey, if you’re that tired, why don’t you just take a nap here in the car?
Hang on. It’s Leonard. Hi, Leonard.
Oh. Thank you, Raj.
Don’t worry, Penny. This is a better car anyway.
Oh, my God, Glenn!
Are you here for the conference?
Oh, good for you. Uh, Glenn, this is my boyfriend Howard.
I’ll try to catch it.
Bye.
Yeah?
No. He was one of my professors in college.
Then we went out for a year. Come on, let’s check in, so we can take that nap.
Do we really need to talk about my old boyfriend now?
Six-seven.
Is something bothering you?
What?
Howard, it’s not a contest. I love you. I want to be with you.
You can’t think that way.
Howard, stop it.
Wait a minute, a girl like me? What’s that mean?
Are you saying you don’t think I’m hot enough to go out with a guy like Glenn?
I’m too hot to go out with a guy like Glenn?
Can I stay here tonight?
Howard’s a complete and total ass.
Thanks. I’ll sleep on the floor.
Sure. I think all branches of science have to move cautiously these days. It’s not just giant nuclear weapons that can destroy the world. As a microbiologist, I can tell you even the tiniest organisms can still tear you a new one.
I think Mr. Wolowitz needs to keep in mind that the past is the past. But he should know that I am the kind of girl who could get all the giant missiles she wants.
Oh, come on, Howard, be realistic.
Um, Penny, that’s Glenn. Glenn, that’s Penny.
Are you guys doing okay?
Well, that shouldn’t be too hard. He’s such a cutie.
Don’t you listen to them. You’ve got plenty of sex appeal.
Yeah. You’re a hottie.
I have to stay here for school.
Most of them regular, some of them kind of messed up.
What do you say?
Did you hear? Isn’t it terrible?
They wouldn’t let me in. Oh my Howie.
Sexually.
That’s how I heard it.
Okay, Raj, I know you’ve been avoiding me and Howard, and I’m not leaving until you tell me what’s going on inside that little head of yours.
Nothing. Just thinking about the noises people make during sex.
It’s cute. You sound a little like a drunken monkey. Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh!
That’s how I take it.
Me too.
Oh! Already? Why don’t you stay over?
Please, I think the woman can manage to put a wig on by herself.
It’s just, when you leave right after we make love, it makes me feel cheap.
Stay.
Go home.
Howard, have you ever considered us living together?
No, I mean just you and me. You can move in here, or we can find a place.
What?
Great.
Sure.
That’s it? That’s your big solution to all of our problems? If your mom’s nose holds up, we get two nights together?
No, it’s not great. You need to make a choice. Me or your mother.
Wrong answer.
I’m listening.
Agh!
Really?
What did she say when you told her?
This is so great. I love you, Howard.
Well, I don’t really have much of anything in the house.
Wow.
I can’t believe we’re finally living together.
What?
No. I, I might have some cheddar.
Okay.
No.
Wait a second. I’m doing your laundry?
I have to take you?
Wait a minute. Are you telling me your mother usually takes you to the dentist?
I can’t believe this.
All right, Howard, let’s get something straight right now. I’m not going to be your mother.
Hi.
We’re here to kidnap you for a girls’ night out.
We just thought you might want to go out and have a good time, maybe go dancing.
Sure.
We were hoping you’d know a place.
But you could if you wanted to, right?
Pick out the hottest guy in the room, take him home, do unspeakable things to him, then kick him to the curb with a smile on his face and teeth marks on his heinie?
I would take that deal all day long.
What’s that?
Oh, God, that is so romantic.
Leonard’s really one of a kind.
That’s kind of creepy.
I feel like I’m supposed to say that bitch, but I don’t have enough information.
I took Howard to the beach once. He almost burst into flames like a vampire.
Oh. That bitch!
Well, if it makes you feel any better, I’m never speaking to Priya again.
I don’t have an urge to fling my waste.
Count your blessings you’re not a Tanzanian chimp.
Oh, hey, Raj, what are you doing here?
Uh-huh. So, uh, Howard’s not here?
Yeah.
Oh, thanks.
Oh, God. What’s happening?
Howard, let me just stop you right here.
Yes.
Yes, I will marry you.
I will. I will!
Oh, I love you, too.
Yeah. Last week we smoked cigars and pretended to be dragons.
Ooh, the Priya bashing’s starting early. Yay! Okay, what’s up with those pantsuits?
Whee-ee-ee!
I do. Amy and Sheldon sitting in a tree. K-I-S-S-S-S-I-N-G.
Not if they’re doing it for a long time.
That doesn’t count. Aren’t you even a little curious?
Oh, I totally want to see Sheldon dance. I bet he looks like a spider on a hot plate.
Well, what does your cotillion training say is expected of a gentleman when three ladies ask him to escort them to a dance soiree?
Muy caliente, Sheldon!
Oh, I’m sorry, I’m engaged.
Amy, you must’ve been in the bathroom with other women before.
Some women don’t like to get chummy when their panties are down.
We’re really not that close.
Did I tell you Priya invited me and Howard to have dinner with her and Leonard?
You think?
Well, what makes me the weakest member?
It doesn’t matter. I’m going to tell her we can’t make it.
I don’t understand. I thought I was a teeny-tiny wildebeest.
I don’t know. I’m not a very good liar. They kind of whup that out of you in Catholic school.
I don’t want anything in my ample bosom.
That’s what I hear.
She’s also dating an astronaut.
Yeah. But Leonard’s impressive, too.
I don’t know. The regular way people meet astronauts.
Obviously, this one doesn’t.
Leonard lives here. Priya’s from India. People meet, Howard. God!
You’ve met lots of astronauts, and I’ve never grilled you about that. I’d thank you to extend me the same courtesy.
Maybe that’s where she met the astronaut, all right?
He’s a consultant.
He can’t have a hobby? Excuse me, I have to pee. Or is that implausible, as well?
In the bathroom.
They’re just asking me all sorts of questions I can’t answer.
I suppose I could get them back to talking about Leonard going to India to meet Priya’s parents.
They said something about going there this summer.
I don’t know. I was too busy covering my heinie on Amy’s stupid astronaut story!
You texted me Penny’s dating an astronaut.
Yeah, it’s hysterical.
I don’t want to do this anymore!
Let me help you.
This trip to India sounds fun.
Are you concerned your parents might not approve of Leonard?
Well, I wouldn’t worry about it. It’s not like you guys are getting engaged, right?
Not engaged. Very interesting. I have to tinkle.
Yes. Are you writing a book?
I’m not upset. Maybe you’re upset.
I can’t do this anymore! I’m a good girl! I went to Catholic school!
You mean the one with my one hundred and eighteen-pound rock-hard stud of a fiancé who’s prone to canker sores and pinkeye?
Do you want me to spill hot soup on her?
I know. But if she orders something low-fat I’ll totally give her the full-fat version.
You guys ready to order?
I don’t understand.
All right. Here you go. Two lemonades, one iced tea and a root beer for Priya.
That’s what you ordered.
Yeah. We’re thinking of having it on a cliff overlooking the ocean.
He hasn’t told her yet. He’s waiting for the right time.
You’re a real hero, Howard.
So it’s probably genetic.
What?
Come on, Howard, I’m going to be your wife. You can share anything with me.
You told her we were going to get married and she had a heart attack?
You mean sexual intercourse?
Howard’s mother had a heart attack because I have sex with him and she can’t.
How can we be together if the thought of us getting married might kill your mother?
Me? Why me?
Okay, well, wish me luck.
You’re a putz. You know what that means?
Your mother just taught it to me. She thinks she got food poisoning from that deli and she just wanted to make sure I was okay.
No, because I’m engaged to a putz. You let me believe I was the reason she had a heart attack.
Shut up! She said I’m a wonderful girl and that you’re lucky to have me.
Guys, sorry I’m late. I have amazing news.
The thesis committee accepted my doctoral dissertation. I’m getting my PhD.
Thank you.
Well, you’ll be really be proud of this. I was headhunted by a big pharmaceutical company. They’re gonna pay me a buttload of money!
Well, there are a couple of opportunities available, but I volunteered for the premature ejaculation project. I mean, it’s not like either one of us has heart disease. Oh, I almost forgot. I got you a little present.
I wanted to. Come on, open it.
Oh, you let me worry about the money. I just want my baby to have pretty things.
You jerk face! What did you tell Howard? Did you say there was something going on between us? Because he thinks there is. He’s completely freaking out!
What the hell is wrong with you?
I’m nice to everyone.
Damn right, you’re sorry. And you tell Howard there’s never been anything between us.
What?!
Of course you do. You’re a cutie pie. Any girl would be lucky to have you.
It’s okay if he wants to come.
What are you going to get at the train store, Sheldon?
That’s pretty big talk for a man with a closet full of magic tricks at his mother’s house.
Why would I keep clothes at your mother’s house?
Is she moving out?
Hang on. You seriously think I’m going to live with your mother?
I’m not gonna live with your mother. Not now, not ever.
Raj, take me home.
Take me home now.
Hey. I don’t want to fight. I was just surprised when you sprung the whole living-with-your-mom stuff on me.
And your mom would be okay with that?
Yeah. Yeah, I guess. Does your mother always cut your meat for you?
I’m okay, Mrs. Wolowitz.
Oh, God.
Okay.
No. I need to brush my teeth, but your mother’s been in the bathroom for, like, an hour.
No, it’s not. I’m not going in there.
Good morning, handsome.
It’s me.
Your mom and I made you breakfast.
Yeah, I guess. We’re very different people, Howard, so communication’s a little tricky.
It’s butter-flavoured syrup.
He wants butter!
I just told him that!
If you want butter, I’ll get you butter.
We went cake-tasting yesterday. Raj came along. He cried and ate half the samples.
You know, I met a really cute girl at work. She’s married to a guy in one of our drug trials.
Yeah, but her husband is in serious congestive heart failure, and a little birdie told me he’s in the placebo group.
Howie, that’s wonderful! Congratulations!
Hang on a second. NASA doesn’t have a shuttle any more. How are you going to get up there?
Are those Russian rockets safe?
Fine. Just a little tired.
I always catch your drift.
I just can’t believe you signed up for the space program without even talking to me.
Just stop talking, Howard.
What did you think was going to happen?
Howard.
Yeah, I get it. I just wish you included me in the decision. We’re supposed to be partners. We’re supposed to be a team.
Okay.
Well, first of all, thank you for including me in the decision-making process.
No.
No.
Howard, my father was a police officer. We never knew from one night to the next if he was going to come home alive. It was horrible. And I don’t want to live that way with you.
Oh, boo-hoo, you’re not going to space!
Howard?
No, I’ve just been thinking. It doesn’t matter if I’m afraid for your safety. I don’t want to be the person who stands between you and your dreams.
Really. If going into space means that much to you, I will never say another word about it.
I love you.
Okay. I just forgot to brush my teeth. I’ll be right back.
I’m ready.
I had no choice. I had to tell his mother. He can’t go to space. He’s like a baby bird. Do you know he once got an asthma attack from reading an old library book?
I don’t know what I’m going to do. I don’t want to break up over this.
Do you guys think it was a mistake? Am I the bad guy in this?
Oh, God, you’re right. I took our love and threw it under his bus-sized mother. I need to apologize.
What?
I do, with all my heart.
Can we talk?
All right. I just wanted to tell you I’m sorry I said something to your mother.
I know. I’m sorry. I got scared.
I know.
Really? You got seasick on Pirates of the Caribbean.
I just did what I did because I love you so much, and the thought of losing you is more than I can handle.
You’re my soul mate. This is where you kiss me.
Hi, Sheldon.
Oh, my God, Howard! What did you do?
Howard has a heart condition! You know that!
This is adrenaline, we’re gonna have to inject it into his heart.
You are. I’m not strong enough to get it through his chest plate, and we’ve only got one shot.
Hurry! We’re running out of time!
Just do it!
Well, if you don’t mind looking like an orange traffic cone, great.
Really?
That’s horrible.
I don’t know. Dead people’s dresses?
Oh, me.
That’s so sweet.
I told you that would happen.
She keeps on telling us stories about bridesmaid traditions in other cultures, and they’re all about getting naked and washing each other.
We thought it would be easier to look at dresses one time without her. I feel terrible.
Oh, Howie.
Oh, you know, just pillow talk. You guys have nothing to worry about.
Yes, absolutely fine.
Hello.
We can go down to the Korean baths and do that thing you were talking about where we wash each other.
Amy, we’re really sorry.
Amy, you’re not a tumour. Penny, tell her she’s not a tumour. .
We know you’re upset, and you have every right to be, but if it’s okay with you, we’d like a second chance to make things right.
Which is why it would mean so much if you would agree to be the maid of honour at my wedding.
No. I, I want you to be the maid of honour.
So is that a yes?
We’re just trying on dresses, do we really need to record this?
I am the bride.
I love it!
Oh, Amy! Looking sexy!
Thank you.
I specialize in microorganisms, and Amy studies brains.
Come back in, Sheldon, he’s not going to hurt you. He looks friendly. I think he might be someone’s pet.
Oh, he’s a sweetie.
Look how sweet he is. Come over and say hi. Come on. You can do it. Don’t be scared. Come on. Oh, just pet the bird, you big baby!
Oh, it’s just like my grandma with her parrot. And after she lost her marbles with her remote control.
I still think he looks like someone’s pet. Maybe we should put up posters.
I didn’t have any.
Amy, really? Twister?
I’m too small for Twister. And roller coasters. And sitting with my feet on the floor. Hope you enjoyed the prenatal cigarettes, Mom.
What are you going to do? Doesn’t he know you have a boyfriend?
Well, yeah, I guess they’re not engaged like me and Howie.
We should play limbo next. No one beats me at limbo.
Looks like it’s just us playing. Penny? Penny, we’re out of wine!
I love this dress. How come I never see you wear it?
Oh, they all went with Leonard to confront his childhood bully.
I don’t think I can meet the girl who was always mean to me. Tammy Bodnick. One time while I was in gym class, she stole all my clothes and left an elf costume in my locker.
Worst part was, it was too big.
What about you?
Oh, my God, that’s awful.
Kind of sounds like you were. And maybe a felon.
You’re doing great.
Penny, it doesn’t matter what you did in the past. You’re a good person now.
You’ll feel better by doing something nice for someone.
Every other week I serve at a soup kitchen downtown.
What about helping people?
I think Mother Teresa would have washed the clothes first.
Donated.
Penny.
I don’t feel good about this.
God, they’re cute. Oh, why did they have to be cute?
Oh, you have a lot of magic stuff.
Did it work?
Ooh. I like the fabric. Where’d she get it?
Listen, Howie, maybe I’m not the best choice to be a magician’s assistant.
You know, i-it’s just that I’m not that comfortable with little kids.
Mmm, yeah, sure.
Oh, ah, right. And now, the great Howdini’s next miraculous illusion.
After you’ve been thoroughly amazed.
Well, you’re not getting cake right now, capisce?
Do you know how to pipe down?
You got wax in your ears? The man said it’s an ordinary pitcher. Howdini.
That’s it. No cake for you. Anyone else want to join the No Cake Club?
Not him.
I told you I’m not good with kids.
The thing is, my mother worked full-time. I had to take care of my brothers and sisters.
Ugh, it was horrible. With their snotty noses and their poopy diapers and their little shrieky voices, always complaining. I don’t want to get dressed. Joey keeps spitting in my mouth. This isn’t the way Mom makes waffles. Well, okay, put your hand in here. Let’s see how you like this waffle!
I’m sorry. I know it makes me sound like a bad person, but I just don’t like children.
Right, when it’s our kid that’s ruined my body and kept me up all night and I’ve got no career and no future and nothing to be happy about for the next 20 years, sure, that’ll be completely different.
Here’s your vest back.
Where?
I guess you talked to your mom, huh?
Look, it’s obvious having kids is really important to you, and I think I came up with a solution.
Well, seeing as how I make way more money than you anyway, what if I work and you stay home with the kids?
Yeah. You know, you’ll watch Barney and pull Cheerios out of their noses and go on play dates, and I’ll work and have conversations with people my own age and enjoy my life.
Yay, so we’re good.
You know, I don’t know if this counted as a fight, but how about some make-up sex?
Ooh!
Ooh!
This is so exciting. If Leonard and Penny get back together, Howard and I can go on double dates with them.
Mm, uh… How’s it going in there, Penny?
Yes.
When did you and Leonard break up?
Why do you think he asked you out again?
Maybe.
Do you think you’ll sleep with him tonight?
You can make-believe, though. Sometimes Howard and I pretend that his arrhythmia is acting up and I’m a sexy cardiologist. And the naughty part is I’m not in his HMO network.
Relax. You know Leonard’s always been crazy about you. It’s gonna be great.
Sure, we’d love that. Change your clothes, we got a lot riding on this.
I’m so disappointed it didn’t work with him and Penny.
Boy, I don’t know if I could be friends with Howie if we broke up.
I’m a very vengeful person.
With access to weaponised smallpox.
Howard.
Oh, that’s nice.
Ooh!
What about me and Howard?
Where are you guys going to eat?
Oh, smells amazing in here.
Who’s Siri? Is he dating somebody new?
Oh. Is that cute or creepy?
I don’t know if I want to stay.
He’s gonna learn to poop in space.
Howard doesn’t make me do his shopping, or take him to the dentist, or pick up his dry cleaning, right?
Turn it over. I’m hoping my relatives think it’s Hebrew.
You mean my special day?
If I ever actually ever get married.
My dad. Because I make a lot more money than Howie, he’s putting a lot of pressure on me to get a pre-nup.
Yeah. Howie’s gonna freak out.
I just don’t know how I’m gonna break it to him.
I don’t know, I don’t want to manipulate him with sex.
Are you mad at me?
So, what are we gonna do?
I don’t know. My dad’s pretty insistent on it, though.
Really? Oh, that’d be so great.
I should probably give you a heads-up about a couple of things. Even though he’s retired from the police force, he still carries his gun. But don’t worry, he won’t shoot it. It’s more of a fashion statement.
And just to be safe, when you talk to him, don’t bring up Jimmy Carter, gardeners, foreign people, homosexuals, Sean Penn, Vatican II, gun control, organic food, the designated hitter rule, recycling or the fact that you’re Jewish.
So the thing to watch for, if he’s shouting at you, you’re okay, but if he starts to get real quiet, leave as quickly as you can without making eye contact. Not in a straight line, throw some zigs and zigs in there.
In May you’re gonna be on the International Space Station.
That is big.
And ugly.
I don’t know. You can’t take it down. You’ll break her heart. Look at that face. That enormous, unsettling, crazy face.
That depends. Do you like pictures of yourself where you look like a man?
What will you tell Amy?
Nuh-uh. What if she gets me one? I already have a picture of me and Howard’s mom getting our hair cornrowed in Venice Beach. I’ve suffered enough.
Mmm, too bad you’re not as strong as the dude in the painting.
I’ve got to go. I’ve got to get up early. My company’s testing a new steroid that supposedly doesn’t shrink testicles, and the last one there has to do the measuring.
Good night, real Penny.
Good night, transvestite Penny.
Hi, sweetie.
I miss you, too. So tell me all about your first day.
Cool. How do they do that?
You threw up?
That sounds mean.
Sure, why?
Howie, what happened to you?
Survival training? Is that like camping?
Do you sleep in tents?
Poor baby.
You’re so brave. I’m proud of you.
Are you crying?
Howie, if you’re not able to do this, come home. It won’t change how I feel about you.
Well, is there anything I could do to help?
Surprise.
I’m here to help you get through this. You can’t do it on your own, you need someone to take care of you.
Oh, I love you.
Get that guy! Get that guy! Pew! Pew! Pew! Pew!
Pew!
Ooh, look at this pretty purple robe I just got. You should put on yours and then we’ll match.
Sorry, I just thought it’d be nice if people knew we were a couple.
I can’t help it. My Howie Wowie has an owie.
I’m gonna go, too.
I’ll miss you.
No, I’ll…
Are you sure you want us here when you meet this woman?
The nuns always chaparoned the dances at my high school. They used to make us leave room between us for the holy spirit.
So, arranged marriages. The parents just decide, and then you have to get married?
Hello.
Raj, Howie told me what’s going on with you and Lakshmi.
We believe there’s someone out there who’ll love you for you.
Not necessarily. I think we’ve found someone for you to cuddle with.
Metrosexual my ass.
Every time I spend the night, your mom slaps me on the behind and says, go get ‘im.
Oh, my God, that’s terrible.
Why are you doing that? You’re being mean to him.
If you don’t want to get teased about that, get a doctorate. I have one, they’re great.
It’s not the same thing. Sheldon doesn’t know when he’s being mean because the part of his brain that should know is getting a wedgie from the rest of his brain.
No, you have to stop now.
Oh, damn. I’m sorry, I can’t make it, but Sheldon’s going to go with you! And that’s the last thing you do to him.
Um, these are gift bags we’re going to put in the hotel rooms of our out-of-town guests. This is a map of Pasadena. This is a list of local restaurants. And then, for Howie’s relatives, we have antihistamines, antacids, and medicine for diarrhoea and constipation.
Amy, please.
I’ve actually been thinking I’m going to hyphenate: Bernadette Mary-Ann Rostenkowski-Wolowitz.
Howard already took care of it. Plus, he set up our beautiful wedding website with cute little facts about our family histories. Do you know, for a while in Poland, my family and his family were neighbours.
Funny. You boys have a nice time?
That’s nice.
You ain’t goin’ anywhere, Threeway.
You lied to me. You said you told me about all the girls you’ve been with, but you never mentioned your cousin, the prostitute or Raj!
Don’t you try and blame this on him.
Zip it, pervert!
I don’t know what I’m going to do. I’m supposed to marry Howard in a couple of weeks and I’m not sure I even know who the man is any more.
When I first met Howard, he seemed so innocent to me, just a sweet little guy who lives with his mother.
Wait a minute. You set me up with Howard. Did you know about all the creepy stuff he was into?
Why didn’t you tell me
My God! I thought you were my friend.
No, leave me alone.
Howie?
I heard. Your voice, not unlike your mother’s, travels through walls.
No. Come here. I’m still really mad at you.
Is there anything else about your past I should know?
Okay.
Yeah, the wedding’s still on.
You’re kidding.
Oh, you’re in a good mood.
What’s so great?
Oh, Howie, that’s wonderful!
What happened? I thought they cancelled your mission.
When?
What? We’re getting married that Sunday.
Wait. I don’t want to be the one who stands in your way.
No. That’s not how I want to start our marriage, killing your dream. We’ll have the wedding when you get back.
We’ll call them. Although my dad’s gonna go a little nutso over losing his deposits.
I’ll talk to him. He won’t say no to his little girl.
But, Howie, my dad can be a bully. He’s gonna make you cancel your space flight.
Oh, God, I’m so nervous. I don’t think I can watch.
Give me those damn Pringles.
Come on, Howard. I’m not falling for that again.
Oh, Howie. A little star, it’s beautiful. Put it on me.
Oh, my God.
This is the most amazing gift I’ve ever gotten.
Howard, I don’t want to wait until you’re back to get married.
I want to be married to you before you get in that rocket.
We’ll have a quick little ceremony with just our friends, and we’ll still have the big reception with everyone when you get back.
So anyway, we decided to go down to City Hall this afternoon get married, and then have the reception when Howard gets back.
That wasn’t going to be our processional music.
So, what do you say, Amy?
Seriously? You’re going to wear that thing to City Hall?
Why wasn’t it a real proposal?
Howard, don’t talk like that on your wedding day.
Oh, no.
I can’t believe we’re not going to get married.
No, isn’t that kind of tacky?
Are any of them still married?
There’s got to be some place special we could do it.
Oh, I like that.
Great, well, who’s it going to be?
No.
Not now, Dad.
Here you go? What am I, a football?
They all got ordained, they’re all marrying us, it’s adorable, if you want to hear come closer.
Sheldon! I told you no Klingon.
Howard Joel Wolowitz, like you, this is going to be short and sweet. I love you with all my heart and soul and promise to be with you forever.
Oh, my God, it’s happening.
I love that man.
I can. How are you?
Good for you. I just had a seemingly endless dinner with your mom.
It was. Until I found out you never told her we’re not gonna live with her. Let’s talk about that for a minute.
You said you told her, but you never did!
How clear is the image of me on that screen?
Do I look like I feel better?
Listen, mister, you’re gonna talk to your mother and you’re gonna fix this, or that thing I said I was gonna do to you the minute you got home, you can do to yourself.
Aw, that’s such good news, Howie. Thank you for telling her.
Was she upset?
Thanks for fixing it. I love you.
Good night, Rocket Man.
And the next wedding gift is a gravy boat.
In the event of a divorce, please return to Sheldon Cooper.
So, you actually see you and Sheldon getting married someday?
What about you, Penny?
Do you think you and Leonard might ever get married?
But do you think you’ll ever get married?
It doesn’t sound like it.
Do you tell him that?
Are you gonna break up with him?
I had no idea you were unhappy.
Oh, that’s not really a fair comparison. I’m basically married to a sexy Buzz Lightyear.
There’s my hubby. How’s everything going up there?
What’s wrong?
Howard.
No, what are they doing?
Oh, Howie.
Why don’t you stand up to them?
I don’t know. Say, being mean is lame, what’s cool is being nice.
Do you want me to call somebody at NASA?
Oh, sure, you had no choice.
Don’t worry. You’ll have plenty of chances to break up with him. Your wedding day, your honeymoon, your 50th anniversary.
Oh, Howie.
Nope, this is my proud face.
Hey, how’s my little astronautie hottie?
Well, hang in there. You just have a couple more days to go, and then you’ll be home.
I got to get back to work. I love you.
What do you want me to do?
Really, you’re serious? Okay.
Hey, I wasn’t expecting to hear from you today. Everything okay?
What’s wrong?
Uh-huh.
Come on, Howard. No one’s leaving you up there.
You’re going to be fine. You survived that Weight Watchers cruise with your mom. And they ran out of low-fat ice cream on day two. Just calm down and take a few deep breaths.
How you doing, Howie? You feeling a little better?
Okay.
Howie, honey, maybe you should talk to someone, let them know you’re having a little anxiety.
Hey, Howie, how you feeling?
Howie, stop that. NASA’s watching this! Put your pants back on!
Waiting for my husband.
He’s coming back from outer space.
No, I mean, he… Never mind. There he is! Howie!
I missed you so much.
Oh, it’s just me.
No, I told them they could have you tomorrow night. Tonight, you belong to me.
I am now that you’re back. Come on, let’s go home so I can tear off those little pants.
It’s just allergies.
Took some Benadryl. I’ll be fine. So, did you miss me?
Yes, we do. You left right after we got married. This is like our honeymoon. Now, hold on to your hat. Oh. Uh-oh.
A little dizzy. Must be the Benadryl. Switch places with me.
Now, kiss me.
I thought you liked Halloween.
Like my husband?
Nice try, but you have to go to that party because we’re going.
Leonard does thing he doesn’t like to make you happy.
I just think in relationships you get back what you put into them.
You could start by taking an interest in his work.
He’s an experimental physicist.
Yeah, you mentioned it once or twice.
Okay, we need to talk.
Howie, I know you went to space. I’m incredibly proud of you. But you might want to try and not bring it up every minute.
Tonight at dinner you went on bout it for an hour straight.
I’m just saying, people are getting a little tired of it.
Of course you can. But maybe a good rule would be to wait for people to bring it up.
I love you.
How do I look?
Uh-oh, is someone a little blue? Come on, Howie, that’s like the funniest thing I’ve ever said in my life. What do you say? You ready to go?
What are you talking about? It’ll be fun. All your friends’ll be there.
No, if I’m there alone, people might think I’m just a really short person from Avatar.
Hey, I just spent the last three hours colouring myself blue. I’m gonna be washing paint out of my Smurf for a month.
Yeah, well, now you’re a Smurf. Keep walking.
Thanks, so do you. Slutty cop?
And Albert Einstein?
Whoa, Drinky Smurf. Can I talk to you for a second?
You, out! You are being very rude.
Me? What did I do?
I’m always on your side.
Just what?
Plain old Howard Wolowitz is the best guy I know.
No, I’m not. I married him. On purpose. Come here.
I love you, too.
Hey, what you watching?
So, I was taking a shower this morning, and when I got out, I started to dry off with what I thought was a towel but turned out to be Howard’s mom’s underwear. I had to take another shower. It wasn’t enough. Nothing will ever be enough.
There’s a book under here.
I got it.
I got it. Why do you have a history textbook?
That’s great. I didn’t know you wanted to go back to school.
Why would you be embarrassed to tell us?
I just can’t believe you could keep something like that from him.
Good.
Got it.
Uh, but we got you a B-minus on purpose to make it believable.
No, no!
Yeah, doing the prom queen’s homework so she’ll like us.
Every time we eat dinner here, your mother refuses to let me help with the dishes.
You ready to go?
I don’t understand why you keep your stuff here when there’s plenty of room at home.
50 cents sounds right. Let’s go.
Because we don’t live here.
Do you? You said when you got back from space you were gonna move into my apartment, but half the time we stay here.
Thank you.
Or in the closet. We can decide later.
Kitchen slammed again?
So, is there anything I can do to help you with the move tomorrow?
What’s your excuse this time?
That might be a little more convincing if you didn’t have a mouthful of bacon cheeseburger.
Howie, you promised you’d move.
I’m starting to think you’re right.
I know this wasn’t easy. You doing okay?
Aw, she’ll be okay. She’s a grown woman.
That’s a lot for a kid to deal with.
She’s lucky you were there.
Aw, crap. Let’s go.
Grab a box. We’ll sleep at your mother’s place tonight.
Well, you should’ve thought of that before you told me the stupid magic trick story.
No husband of mine is gonna break his mother’s heart!
We’re so proud of you, Amy. Your first bikini wax.
Really? Only five?
Okay. So, did you spend last night hearing about this silly parking space fight, too?
Howard was so angry I had to mash up Benadryl in his ice cream to get him to fall asleep.
I’m really sorry they took Sheldon’s spot away. He shouldn’t have to suffer just because Howard’s such a big deal now.
What’s that supposed to mean?
You’re right. And I’m sure Sheldon will get a fancy parking spot again, if and when he makes a worthwhile contribution to science.
Hang on. None of Sheldon’s theories have ever been definitively proven. My husband actually went to outer space.
Gosh, Amy. I’m sensing a little hostility. Is it maybe because, like Sheldon’s work, your sex life is also theoretical?
I don’t have to take this. I’m gonna go home and have sex with my husband right now. Maybe I’ll let him do it to me in the parking spot. Which sounds dirty, but I didn’t mean it that way,
What can I tell ya? She’s a big girl. Wherever you look, there she is. More coffee?
He’s not here. What’s wrong?
Oh, no. Where was it parked?
That doesn’t make sense. Sheldon doesn’t have a spot. Was it maybe in Howard’s spot?
Well, that doesn’t make sense, either.
Because I’m the one who had it towed.
Didn’t see that one coming, did ya?
Are you okay?!
Don’t move. I’ll get some ice.
Here.
Amy, you think maybe this has gotten a little out of hand?
You hit her! What did I do?
You were parked in Howard’s spot.
Sheldon doesn’t have a spot.
Okay, let’s go.
The tow truck didn’t scratch your car.
‘Cause I did it!
You know, I’m kind of glad this happened.
I just put it in. It’s gonna be a while.
You could die.
So, Dad, have you done any fishing lately?
Hey, Dad, maybe you could take Howard fishing sometime. Give you guys a chance to get to know each other better.
Howie, I think you’d have fun.
Terrific. My two favorite fellas gone fishin’.
What thing?
Oh, that thing. No, I cancelled that thing.
How’s the poor thing?
Okay, Amy, I brought you some drugs we were working on in the lab. This is proving really good for congestion, but there’s a slight chance it can make your tears burn like acid, so if you take it, happy thoughts.
This is a really good expectorant. Although some test subjects reported lactating uncontrollably when they heard music.
I don’t understand.
So you’ve just been lying to him?
I don’t mean to be judgy, but this is the kind of thing lunatics do.
Saturday night? But I’ve been working late all week. That was gonna be our night.
You’re an idiot.
Sorry, Raj, it’s girls’ night out.
No!
Hey, let’s help Raj meet a girl tonight.
Yeah, you’re a real catch. I know you’re shy, but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t have someone wonderful in your life.
We’ll nose around, see if we can find a nice girl, and then introduce you.
Bottom line, you’ll take any woman who’ll have you, right?
Looks like he’s doing pretty good.
Oh, here he comes.
Jennifer at not-even-if-you-were-the-last-guy-on-earth dot loser.
I’m sorry, Raj.
Why would you say that?
Think harder.
Sometimes the pancreas wants what the pancreas wants.
Who’s involved?
I’m sure you’ve got nothing to worry about. Leonard would never cheat on you.
Well, Alex is your employee. If she’s doing something that’s making Leonard uncomfortable, you should talk to her.
Sheldon, you need to talk to Alex right away.
Why?
He’s not exhausting at all.
It’s cute how excited they are. You should have seen Howard sewing his costume all week for the convention.
When he was a little boy, every couple months, he would have to let his mom’s pants out.
I don’t mind it. I think Howie’s just in touch with his inner child. Although when he comes to bed in his Batman pyjamas, sometimes it feels like I’m touching his inner child.
I’ve never even read a comic book. You guys?
I mean, it’s such an important part of their lives. Maybe we should try reading some.
The comic book store isn’t far from here.
Why are they staring?
We were looking for a recommendation about comic books.
What kind of comics do the guys like?
I don’t know, there were a lot of pictures, and one page only had the word brakkadoom!
So, what’d you guys think?
It’s crazy, they spend hours arguing about things that don’t even exist.
I don’t think it’s heavy. It’s some sort of magic, so only Thor can lift it.
No.
Let’s read it again.
You want some tea?
Hold on, who decides who’s worthy? Does the hammer decide?
Leonard and Sheldon have boxes of comics across the hall. Why don’t we go look at those?
Well, what if the Hulk picked up Thor while Thor is holding the hammer?
Then by the transitive property of picking things up, Hulk picked up the hammer.
What?
Oh, my God. That’s so cute. I didn’t think there could be a smaller version of you.
Oh, Howie, I love these.
Were they expensive?
How?
$5,000 for a couple of dolls? Are you out of your mind?
At any point, did it dawn on you to talk to me about spending this kind of money?
I don’t believe you. Howie, we can’t afford to waste money on junk like this.
I make plenty of money. You make peanuts.
No, here’s how love works. You’re gonna return the machine, or you can print out a working set of lady parts and sleep with those. Oh, my God! Are you actually thinking about it?
Oh, thanks.
Those Chinese acrobats in Cirque du Soleil made it look so easy.
If you could bend that far, you’d be doing us both a favour.
Should we go back and rescue him?
Yeah, fill her up. I’ll tell you when to stop.
Oh, bite me.
Maybe if you did what you said you were going to do, I’d tell you.
I’ve been working late every night. All I asked was that he clean the apartment and do one load of laundry. But did he do it? No. He just kept on playing that stupid game. You like pushing buttons so much, try pushing them on the washing machine.
Sorry doesn’t clean my underpants, buddy.
And I told you to bite me.
Uh-oh.
They do look happy.
You know, compared to them, I’m feeling pretty good about us.
Thank you.
Love you, too.
Where you’d never look.
Geez, how close were you guys before we got married?
Did something good happen?
It smells pretty ripe in here. You kind feel it in your eyes.
Oh, you poor baby.
Guys, we’re trying to get him out of here, not you in.
We could go to Red Lobster and talk about it. We’re all thinking it. I just had the decency to wait for him to leave.
Why don’t you take her to Disneyland? You go on Space Mountain, you’re in the dark, she’s holding onto you.
Weekends are too crowded.
Joke?
So, what do you say? This Friday we ditch work and go to Disneyland?
Let’s think.
What did you tell your boss?
Penny, what did you say?
I don’t know about you guys, but I’m gonna make a beeline for the place that gives you a princess makeover.
Okay, so, you pick your princess, Sleeping Beauty, Snow White, Cinderella, they give you hair, makeup, the works.
We can’t all be Cinderella.
Well, it’s simple. This was my idea. I’m driving. I’m Cinderella. You bitches got a problem with that, we could stop the car right now.
And I’m Dr. Rostenkowski Wolowitz, and I’m a microbiologist.
That’s true. Every one of you has the capacity to be anything you want to be.
Come at me. See what happens.
Yes, and I have a surprise for you.
Well, hello, Prince Charming.
What you doing?
You can’t just throw everything in the closet.
What if someone looks in there?
Well, you don’t know that. What if someone’s looking for the bathroom and they open that door?
Fine. But after tonight we need to get a handle on this mess.
Why?
He’s our guest, we can’t just ask him to straighten our closet.
Thanks. And, Sheldon, I know tonight’s the night you eat Thai food, so I went to the Asian market, got all the ingredients and made it from scratch.
Oh, it’s my pleasure.
You stopped and got him takeout?
Sheldon, I’ve been cooking all day.
Show him the closet.
That’s the takeout that Sheldon brought.
Oh, my God, it’s beautiful. Look, he found the juggling pins I hid.
Howard, don’t you want to know what’s in the letter?
Howie, you okay?
Told you you shouldn’t have espresso after dinner. I know the little cups make you feel big, but it’s not worth it.
Did you read it?
You must be curious.
Why don’t you read it? Maybe he apologizes or explains why he left.
I get that. So, what do you want to do with it?
Really? Are you sure?
Feel better?
Yeah, just seeing that letter really freaked him out. And he was already having a tough day ’cause he accidentally wore my pants to work. I don’t know why he was upset. They were bigger on him than me.
Me, too, but I guess now we’ll never know.
I can’t do that. What kind of wife would I be if I didn’t respect my husband’s privacy?
Yeah, try doing it in heels.
Wait. There’s something I have to tell you.
I know what was in your dad’s letter.
I made him tell us.
I’m sorry.
I’m sorry. I should have left it alone.
What are you looking at?
That’s nice.
Think you could take a break?
Got a little surprise for you. Come on.
Sit down, honey.
Inside the envelope was a picture of your dad holding you the day you were born. On the back he wrote Howard, my son, my greatest gift. You okay?
Sheldon, don’t you dare.
That’s more like it.
Glad you’re feeling better.
I think that’s enough wine for now.
I’m gonna make some coffee.
Walk.
Well, there was action, it was funny. I mean, you do get that usually the monster chases the pretty girl, but this time the pretty girl chases the monsters?
Why does this bother you so much?
Well, sure. I’m pretty passionate about science. I remember the first time I looked through a microscope and saw millions of tiny microorganisms. It was like a whole other universe. If I wanted to, I could wipe it out with my thumb like a god.
Well, there’s no reason you can’t.
Absolutely. All we need to do is spend a little time and find something you’re passionate about.
Yeah, you two were so cute playing together.
And you were sweet not to throw it too far so she didn’t wear out her tiny legs.
You know, there were a few moments today when I almost felt like we were a little family.
Yeah. I never thought of myself as a mom, but when the three of us were out there having fun, I felt like maybe someday we could do it.
Where’d she go?
Well, you were the one who was supposed to put her back in the stroller.
No, I wasn’t.
Yeah, well, you throw like a girl.
Cinnamon!
You know, maybe she doesn’t recognize her name because of Raj’s accent.
Thanks.
It turns you on when I sound like Raj?
Can’t believe we lost her. What was I thinking? I’d be a terrible mom.
It’s fine. Where’d you get that picture of her?
Oh, thank God she’s okay.
Hang on, you’ve had her for hours?
So you knew she was okay, and you couldn’t pick up the phone to tell us?
Don’t well me, mister. We’ve been worried sick. She could have been dead for all we knew. You should be ashamed of yourself.
Sorry’s not good enough. Maybe you need to take some time and think about what you’ve done.
Burbank Airport, please.
No husbands, no boyfriends, no rules.
Fine. No husbands, no boyfriends, some rules.
I got a sexy new tube top that says come hither, and a can of pepper spray that says close enough, Jack.
That’s an excellent question. Amy?
Long story short, she’s on the No Fly List and we might have been followed here by a drone.
I say we attack the big one.
Come on, mama wants a pair of dead ogres.
This may be the potion talking, but you are one fine-ass dungeon master.
Ooh! Come on, back me up here.
Okay, I cast a love spell on Sheldon and Amy.
You know, one of the things that helped me get through Howard being in space for so long was getting married before he left.
Hey, you don’t think I’m pretty enough to scare your girlfriend?
So, have you ever spent a long time on a boat before?
Are you referring to the time we got stuck on the Small World ride at Disneyland?
What’s going on?
The hotel’s nice. There’s a pool, a gym, the bar looks like fun.
Aw, I love you, too. If I don’t talk to you before you go to sleep, I’ll meet you in dreamland.
I was thinking of going to the lecture on posterior cingulate cortex lesions in the formation of autobiographical memory.
To the advancement of science.
This is fun, we never really get to talk shop with Penny around. We usually just end up talking about boys.
Be cool.
You’re right. Thank you.
It’s fine. I thanked them again and let them know we’re not available.
Yes, it’s all cool. Although, if you wanted to talk to one of them, no one would blame you.
I don’t know what I’m saying.
Boy, these drinks are strong. Hoo, mama, I’m gonna be huggin’ the toilet tonight.
I just meant that you’re not married and your boyfriend’s kind of, Sheldon.
Sorry. I have no point. That was a stupid thing to say. Can we please just go back to having a nice time?
Come on. I apologize. Can we please just let it go?
Thanks.
Good night.
Yeah, that felt nice.
So, hypothetically, if, if we were to have gone with them, which one would you have picked?
Oh, good, ’cause I liked the tall thin one. He seemed intelligent, kind of a loner, maybe a little sexually inexperienced, like I’d have to teach him a thing or two.
Your short sexed-up guy kind of sounds like Howard.
Hi, honey.
I made some brownies. You want one?
We are. Stop it. And for the last time, you’re not fat.
Fine, forget I asked. How was dinner at your mom’s?
Why can’t she do it?
Let me see. How long have you been putting this on her?
This is really strong oestrogen cream. Please tell me you’ve been wearing gloves.
Howie, the oestrogen’s getting absorbed by your skin. That’s why you’ve been all bloated and moody and a giant pain in the ass.
That’s ’cause I’m a woman. I’ve had years of practice riding the dragon.
It’s still gonna take a few weeks for the hormones to leave your system.
It’s okay. You still look great to me. In fact, why don’t we go in the bedroom and I’ll prove it to you?
Oh, that happened right after you left.
Maybe we can do it next week.
Should we just do couples?
Faster, faster, faster! Do you not know that word? It means more fast!
Hey, you’ll know when I’m yelling at you.
Come on, numb nuts, it’s the comic book store.
Because you’re in the right lane behind a bus and you won’t go around it? I’m sure she finds it charming.
I’m starting to think she dodged a bullet. The slowest bullet in the world.
Yeah, I know. Its, it’s probably because I grew up with five brothers and sisters so I had to fight for every… Oh, my God, you did not just slow down for a bird, you know they fly, right?
Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! How am I faster than you? I’m in heels and I stopped to take a phone call.
Hey, Romeo. Repair your relationship on your own time.
I knew it, we’re gonna lose.
Congratulations, you got it last.
Don’t sweat it, my dad’s a cop. He can fix things.
Who cares? Focus on the game.
No. Quitting would be the worst thing for your relationship.
Because it would make you seem like something she already thinks you are.
How do I put this? She’s been known to call you a name that usually applies to a lady part. Or a cat. Or a willow.
If you’re gonna cry about it there’s tissues in my purse. Unless you got some in yours. Big willow.
Can you reach the clue?
Hurry, Sheldon and Penny were right behind us in the bowling alley.
Great, climb back up. Come on.
Let’s go.
They’re here first. This is because you made me slow down for that blind guy.
No, she doesn’t. I just made that up.
Because you were about to quit like a big, Sheldon, cover your ears.
Wish I had a man like her on my team.
Maybe the spot’s the clue.
Stop her, Leonard, stop her.
Then where’s the coin?
You suck so hard.
You were really quiet during dinner. Is everything okay?
Yeah, I bet it sucked. I’m gonna take a bath, you do the dishes.
Here’s what’s gonna happen. I’m gonna take a bath, and you’re gonna do the dishes.
Aw, poor Howie. We good? I’m gonna take a bath.
God, what is going on with you?
And I’m not buying it. Try again.
Howard.
So, Amy, what are you gonna be working on at Caltech?
If they’re anything like humans, the answer’s yes.
You mean like death row inmates with nothing to lose? No, that would be unethical.
He’s never gonna stop doing that, is he?
He said what?
Excuse me, I need to have a chat with my husband.
Well?
What exactly do you think you’d get sick of?
Is it my voice? Am I too bossy? What?
That’s the wrong arm for a heart attack, doofus.
Like looking me in the eye and lying to me?
Find somewhere else to sleep tonight.
Hi.
I may have overreacted.
It’s just sometimes I feel like you enjoy spending time with your friends more than with me.
It’s not? You spend all day together at work, and then you all hang out at night playing games, going to the comic book store. Last week, you two got a couples massage. So, when you said you wouldn’t want to spend that much time with me, it really hurt my feelings.
Why tomorrow?
I’m not apologizing to Howard. He can come beg me on his knees.
Great news. A raccoon virus just crossed the species barrier and now can infect humans.
In the pharmaceutical business we have a saying, mo’ infections, mo’ money.
Oh, calm down. If I had it, I’d be dead already.
Well, let’s just say the next time you move a dozen vials of raccoon virus to the fridge, make two trips.
Yeah, it’s just a precaution. If there was a problem, I’d be throwing up out of my eyeballs by now. Sorry I messed up our date.
What’s all this?
Howie.
Oh, Howie.
Howie, that was amazing. Look, I’m shaking.
Howie, stop. Come on, look at what I’m making.
Me, too.
Hi.
Oh, sure, so it’s fine when you say it.
Maybe you should master glue before you move on to fire.
He’s kidding. If that were true, it’d be so much bigger.
Penny, can we please get our drinks?
Cool. At my lab, I performed ten laser capture micro-dissections.
That’s Lucy?
I think that reason’s called racism.
Why? What are you gonna say?
You because you just called him your Indian friend.
No, but we knew that.
We did, you never brought it.
So, how are you gonna tell Raj abut what you did?
Then you made her cry and leave.
If this girl hurt you so much, are you sure you want to see her again?
Well, if you’re sure you want to do this, it’s only coffee, just relax and see what happens.
Sure.
Maybe, if she asks.
I’d save that for the second date.
Hi, Dad.
Oh, you brought beer for everybody.
You can have a quiet day and watch the game here.
I guess we’re gonna have to do all the cooking.
If you think you’re gonna make me do all this by myself, you’re crazy.
Oh, well, that’s a great idea.
Thanks for saving the day.
I’ll help Raj in here. Why don’t you go keep my dad company?
Don’t be silly, he loves you.
Okay, he cares about you a lot.
I do crap for you all the time. Get out there.
What?
I don’t know. He’s sweet, he’s tall, handsome.
How’s it going out there?
What are they doing?
So why don’t you do that with them?
What do you mean?
Sorry. I really want to hear how sad you are. I’ll be back in like five, ten minutes.
Hey. Howie says you’ve been making fun of him all day. Now, both of you apologize right now.
It’s okay.
Thanks again for cooking.
Want to pause the video game and help me clean up?
Come on, it’s your friend who’s coming to stay here.
Howie.
The rest of the week? You said it was just gonna be a night or two.
No.
I love Raj, but that’s a long time for a house guest.
He’s bringing Cinnamon?
Hey, guys. Sorry I’m so late. Did you already have dinner?
Aw, that’s so sweet.
Thank you, Raj.
Okay, um, well, first, I was late to a meeting ’cause I was stuck in traffic.
Thank you.
Aw! Raj did the dishes.
Because once, when all the knives were dirty, you cut a bagel with your keys.
Aw, you didn’t have to do that.
What presentation do I have today?
Raj, this dinner was amazing. If you’re here much longer, I’m gonna have to buy bigger clothes.
Aw. Howie, how come you never say anything sweet like that?
Maybe you could try being more thoughtful, like your friend Raj.
Oh, really?
Like I don’t do enough around here. Now I need to pack your lunch? And by the way, why do you need a note telling you to go get ’em? You’re a grown man, you should know to go get ’em.
This is stupid. Why are we fighting?
You’re not a lousy husband. You’re a great husband. I was the one feeling like a lousy wife.
Yeah, we were totally fine half-assing our marriage till you showed up.
I back you up all the time.
What is wrong with you?
Good idea, I’ll take a picture.
Hi.
Hey, I brought over It’s a Wonderful Life if you guys want to watch it later.
But then he gets to see what the world would be like if he’d never been born.
Well…
Hey, Penny, can I take that table?
The one in the turtleneck is cute.
Never mind.
You know, I was thinking. Without Sheldon, most of us would have never met, but Penny would still live across from him.
Hey, how come you three never got an apartment together?
Aw, so I guess if it weren’t for me, you’d still be living with her, huh?
How is this any different?
Hey, so how come you two didn’t move in together?
You actually got him to do it.
Raj, when you said you were gonna bring a date to watch Penny’s thing tonight, I didn’t think you meant Stuart.
Well, Stuart’s cute in his own way.
Or maybe just stop talking.
Or just keep dating the possum.
What happened?
Hey.
That’s interesting.
If you want him to stop, sometimes the easiest thing to do is just fake a laugh.
No, of course not.
I don’t think you would.
How many times do I have to tell you to replace the toilet paper when it’s empty?
So am I.
Hey Stuart.
Sorry. Did I startle you?
Well, I need a little help. I accidentally destroyed one of Howard’s comic books this morning, and was hoping I could replace it.
Batman got his ass kicked by my curling iron.
Do you have this one?
Ooh, I was kind of hoping to get it before Howie comes home from work.
Well, he’s always saying I should be more careful with my curling iron, and it seems like a dangerous precedent to let him think he can be right.
You know, I do work at a pharmaceutical company. If you can make this happen today, I can hook you up with anxiety medication, antidepressants.
Oh, that’s great.
Oh, that’s terrible. What’s the address?
Oh, thanks, but I don’twant you to close up. I mean, won’t you lose business? Sorry. That was mean.
Wow.
No, thanks.
Hey.
I don’t think I like the way you’re treating my friend.
Not from you. Let’s go, Stuart.
Yes, I am, there’s a few more things I want to say to you. Stuart’s store is just fine, and he’s a much nicer person than you are, and if you still have that comic, I’d like to buy it right now.
No, I don’t want a latte. I want a cappuccino and a blueberry scone.
Well, that sounds even better.
Those tickets were pretty expensive. I had to give Howie an advance on his allowance. Now he’s never gonna put his toys away.
Well, while they’re acting like teenagers, we could do something grown-up.
Oh, I know. There’s a nice hotel not far from here where they do afternoon tea.
La-dee-da, look who has clean underwear.
I can’t believe the waiter thought I was your daughter.
That’s cute.
Should we leave?
I could go for a drink.
Honestly, I thought when I got married I would, but I still kind of feel like I’m pretending. It doesn’t help that most of my clothes come from Gap Kids.
Yeah. Or you’d be the oldest one here.
Well, for starters, we’d be splitting this check three ways.
Are you sure you guys don’t want to come with us to Napa? You could probably still get a room.
I’m gonna fix this right now.
Excuse me. You are at Valentine’s dinner with your girlfriend. Now get back over there and be with her.
Great. Now there’s two of ’em.
Well, just the fact that you got him up here still says a lot. To be honest, I bet Howie 200
See? It’s not just Sheldon. They’re all idiots.
So, your boyfriend’s a fixer-upper. Most of them are. I mean, look at this guy. You think he came like this? When I met him, he was a hot, goofy mess. Now, he’s been to space. That’s all me.
Oh, sure you did. Who’s Mama’s big space man?
I love you, too.
Sorry.
Oh, that sounds so romantic.
Let’s go.
Guys, you’re being childish.
Have you guys ever thought about getting a dining room table?
Hey.
Fine. Can I at least shower first?
What are you talking about?
Wow. Well, what did you say?
Well, it’s just, after last time, I didn’t think you’d ever want to go back.
Really? ‘Cause I kind of remember a lot of complaining and wishing for it to be over.
He hated that entire experience. Does it make me an awful wife if I don’t think he should do it again?
So you’ll talk to him?
Well, I’m his wife, I don’t want to ruin it for him.
Since when am I the buzzkill?
No, I think it’s stupid.
You’re right, it’s great.
Hi, honey.
Maybe you should have a seat.
Daddy.
I think what we’re all trying to say is, you don’t seem to be remembering how traumatic the experience was for you.
Don’t forget all the other astronauts picking on you.
Yeah, it’s fun up here.
Now I feel bad.
No, it just seems silly for us to sit in two groups.
Look at Amy down there. Should we go?
Come on, Raj, it’s not the same without you.
Raj, your tag’s sticking out.
Now I feel a little gross.
Serial Ape-ist? I thought you died in that.
Can I ask you something? Why do you constantly feel the need to put down my husband?
That was ten years ago.
What are you doing?
This is gonna be a long weekend for you.
I said to stop insulting each other. I didn’t tell you to take him on a romantic getaway.
Hi.
You excited for Texas?
I did. His talk at NASA went great.
No, in fact, he was so well-behaved, Howie bought him a Buzz Aldrin bobble head and astronaut ice cream.
Hi, Stuart.
Well, I told Howie if I wasn’t busy, I’d spend the night at his mom’s. So for God’s sake, think of something.
I didn’t know his last name was Bloom.
All right, if I’m doing this, I’m playing to win, so just to be clear, if we’re ourselves, that means one of us killed Stuart?
What is that, like, the Indian Sherlock Holmes?
What do you care? You’re dead.
So, what happens next?
I didn’t know you were fat.
Hey, what about this? It looks like a receipt.
For a cup of coffee. But it’s dated 20 years from now.
So one of us went back in time to kill Stuart?
So I guess you two are making it work long distance.
Speak for yourself. Last month, my company both invented and cured Restless Eye Syndrome. Ka-ching, ya blinky chumps.
What the hell?
Penny did it, I win. Suck it, jackasses.
I liked the time travel element.
Well, I hope 20 years from now, we really are all still together and still friends.
Aw.
Can I get your opinion on something that happened at work today?
Okay, well, I did something that will either make me look like a lovable goof or a horrible monster damned to spend eternity in hell.
Well, there’s this lady in our office who’s retiring, and they were passing around one of those big cards for us to sign.
But no one told me she was in a horrible car accident over the weekend and what I was signing was not a retirement card but was actually a get well card.
So on the card, in the hospital, next to the woman who’s clinging to life are the words, “Hey, Vivian. You deserve this. And at least with you gone, no one will steal my yoghurt out of the fridge.”
“LOL.” Smiley face.
“P.S. Good luck wherever you wind up.”
Am I a terrible person?
Am I a terrible person that it crossed my mind that she might die and never see the card?
I’m so sorry.
Are you gonna take it?
I like the Wii.
What do you mean, yes?
Were you seeing other women when we started dating?
No.
Poor thing, she was in surgery for 18 hours. She’s alive, but she’s still in critical condition.
The one bit of good news is they put her in a medically induced coma before she read the card. So, you know, silver linings.
Yes.
I’m excited to meet Emily.
Why would you say that?
How?
Hi.
Emily, what do you do?
Yeah, what happened?
Please don’t say it.
Howie.
So, Emily, why did you decide to specialize in dermatology?
You’re kidding, right?
Howie, we moved on a long time ago.
We moved on.
How’s your soup?
Where are you going?
We kind of just wanted one night where we didn’t have to hear about how miserable you are making this movie.
I’d tell you what I do with Howard, but I don’t think dressing up like a Catholic schoolgirl is gonna work with Sheldon.
Of course.
Between Penny’s gorilla movie and Howard’s gorilla mother, I had no choice.
Oh, we know you don’t lie to her.
I gotta go. Penny ratted me out. FYI, she’s getting you a watch for your birthday with money she took out of your wallet.
Me, too. Although, it might’ve been thoughtless of us to bake a Death Star cake.
Well, anyway, it’ll be a nice surprise for the boys. And Howie doesn’t think I take his interests seriously, so hopefully this will keep him fooled for a while.
This is pretty cool. You don’t see too many spherical cakes.
No. My dad controlled the TV, so unless someone was a Texas Ranger, Jake or the Fatman, we didn’t see it.
Not me. I got into science ’cause I was always the smallest kid in school, so I thought if I became a scientist, I could invent a formula that made me taller.
Yeah, I thought it was working for a while, but then I found out my brother was just lowering the pencil marks on the door frame. How about you?
Girl Sprouts?
How did that get you into science?
Happy Star Wars Day.
And even though it meant we had to miss the movies, we could still be part of the fun.
Son of a bitch.
Almost there. You’re doing great.
We set it up in Howie’s old room.
Maybe we should get one of those machines to help her up the stairs.
Howie.
Taking care of your own mother? How can you say that?
I would do it for my mother.
Look, I’m not crazy about the idea, but what other choice do we have?
You’d hire a total stranger to take care of the woman who raised you? That’s so cruel.
You are a putz.
You know, you’re always talking about having a baby someday. This is exactly what it’s gonna be like.
Come on. The constant fussing, eating, pooping, burping, drooling. We’re even waiting for the day when she can finally walk on her own.
I’m just telling you now, if we do have kids, don’t expect me to do all the work.
Howie, I’m back!
Sorry.
They only had regular yoghurt. I had to go to a different store to get the extra-fat kind your mom likes.
So what? After two days of taking care of her, excuse me for stopping to get a mocha.
Queen? I’ve been killing myself here.
I’m glad I got that mocha. And you know what else I’m glad about? I bought you a brownie and I ate it in the car.
Last night was a little rough, but I think we’re gonna get through this.
Me, too.
You were right.
She’s just so impossible, they keep quitting.
You guys propose all the time. This never happens.
I know you’ve only been here a day and a half, but you’re like part of the family. I don’t think the service is gonna send any more people.
That’s not helpful.
But we have jobs. We can’t baby-sit her 24 hours a day.
I wanted to go to Hawaii, not hell.
Howie, I love you, and as your wife, your mother is every bit as much my problem as she is yours, so, I want a divorce.
Sorry I’m late. The leaf blower broke, so I had to hand-dry my mother-in-law.
Thanks. Little warning before you jump into this marriage business. You’re not just marrying him, you’re marrying his family.
It doesn’t matter if she’s okay with you. The question is, can she go to the bathroom by herself? Hit me again.
You’re not working. How would you like a job in home health care?
Please. I’m desperate.
I’ll pay you anything you want.
I could’ve ridden a bull longer than that.
So, she’s not too much for you?
Yeah. I don’t know why, but something about it feels unnatural.
Yep.
Don’t be. You are built for pharmaceutical sales. You’re cute, you’re flirty and started that like there were gonna be three things.
This job is a lot like being a waitress, except instead of pushing the fish tacos ’cause they’re about to go bad, you’re just pushing our antidepressants before the FDA finds out they may cause rectal bleeding.
Maybe. But like our lawyers say, the world is full of things that can cause a rectum to bleed. Anyway, I talked you up to Dan. He’s the guy who’ll be interviewing you.
You’ll be fine. Just be yourself.
Penny, I wouldn’t have put you up for this job if I didn’t think you could handle it.
It’s too late to cancel. You’re going.
Oh, I understand. You want to do something you’re already good at. I know. Why don’t I get you a job at the Sitting Around All Day Wearing Yoga Pants Factory?
I never thought I’d say this, but Penny got a job today.
Well, the only reason she got it is ’cause the guy who interviewed her loves me.
Howie?
Okay, calm down. You’re not his father, he’s not your father. Nobody’s anybody’s father.
Hey, don’t you take that sarcastic tone with him.
Did you get a chance to look over the materials I gave you?
Great. When?
I don’t want to be pushy, but you’ve never done pharmaceutical sales before. It seems like you could use this time to get a head start.
But imagine how impressed they’d be if you showed up already familiar with the material.
Couldn’t hurt.
Not much. You want to get a drink later? Just the two of us?
Not tonight. I’m a little frustrated with her.
So it’s not just me. You see it, too.
It’s driving me crazy. Just this afternoon, I saw on Instagram that instead of studying, she went out to lunch and got a manicure.
I know.
Exactly. Does she not realize it or does she not care?
Hey, Amy.
That sounds fun, but I promised Penny I’d come by and help her study.
I was probably being too hard on her. We talked, we’re good.
Well, don’t worry, everything’s back to normal.
Okay, what are the potential side effects for our erectile dysfunction drug?
Yes.
Want to stop here?
Nah, you got this. Let’s go for a drink. I’ll call Amy.
I can’t believe you’re sore.
But they throw an actual ball. You were throwing air at a TV.
I’m kind of surprised you agreed to do this in front of a stadium full of people.
Okay. Well, if you want, I could help you practice. I played a lot of softball growing up.
Great. And while we’re at it, maybe we could butch up your run for when you head out to the mound.
All right, the pitcher’s mound in Major League Baseball is sixty feet, six inches away from home plate.
Keep going.
I’ll let you know.
Okay, stop.
That’s sixty feet.
I’m looking at it.
Okay, it’s not that hard. You just look to where you want to throw it, step towards where you want to throw, and throw it.
Just throw the ball. Let’s see what we’re working with.
Throw the damn ball!
Think he’s getting any better?
Okay.
I think so.
He’s so nice.
Howie, I am so proud of you.
Go get ’em.
Why is it going so slow?
But he’s going to.
Long story short, they have seven HBOs.
You know, Penny just started training to be a pharmaceutical sales rep. Maybe she can practice on you some time.
Last night was fun. What did you think of Emily?
Did she say she didn’t like you?
You guys just met. Why would she feel that way?
I’m sure you’re worried about nothing.
Really?
When you go to Emily’s office to practice, you’ll see. It’s fine.
Come on, look how pretty you are. I’m sure this isn’t the first girl to hate you.
And I’m sure you can turn it around.
Oh, I know. Why don’t you use your sales training to go back down there and sell yourself?
Yeah. But instead of selling a drug, you’d be selling Penny. it’s cute.
Well, maybe people would like you more if you didn’t crap all over their ideas.
Nope.
I know.
Fine. What is it?
Nope.
Howard, you know we’re saving up for a house.
It just seems like a risky investment.
Oh. Howie, I had no idea.
Oh, baby. That story’s made up, isn’t it?
Okay, let’s get down to business. Howie was thinking about putting up some money to help you reopen the store, but before that happens, I have a few questions.
Hell, yeah.
I’ll check hotels.
Well, what do you want to do?
That sucks.
You sure?
We’re not seeing Fairly Manilow.
I think after this, I’ll be dead.
I’m proud of her. This is a great opportunity. It’s nice to see her take it seriously.
We are.
Amy.
You’re embarrassing me.
What?
Housekeeping.
It was us the whole time.
Was it working?
Oh, I’m so sorry.
Guess who won a hundred dollars playing craps.
Then guess who wildly overtipped a cocktail waitress.
We want to see if they twirl their junk in the other direction.
Come on, do you want to sit here being a loser, or do you want to watch me climb into an Australian man’s G-string like a baby kangaroo?
Aren’t you gonna chase her?
See? Isn’t this better than a hotel room?
Have you ever seen a body so fine?
Would you please close the drapes?
I like your suit.
Speaking of new careers, how are things going with dark matter, Sheldon?
Oh. What’s going on?
Maybe they could ride around in one of those mine carts that go ee-oo-ee-oo-ee-oo.
I told you they weren’t gonna ask us to swing with them.
Sure, sometimes. I mean, it can be a little awkward since I make so much more money than Howie.
Well, I didn’t have to, but for the sake of accuracy I felt that I should.
Like what? Your incomplete set of Star Trek collector plates?
Without asking me?
How much, Howie?
How much?
Was it more or less than falconry school?
Well, maybe I would have paid it if I wasn’t also doing everything else around here.
That was a pity star. Putting water in the roasting pan and leaving it in the sink is not doing the dishes.
Well, don’t come crying to me when you don’t get your allowance.
Sorry you guys had to see that.
Money’s a sensitive subject for Howie because of the difference in our income.
Well, sure. There’s still a lot of pressure on guys to be providers. So even though he’s happy for me, it’s just a little tough on him.
I’ll be right back. I’m gonna go check on him.
I’m so sorry I made you feel bad about the money stuff.
No, it’s not okay. I want us to be partners, equals. Adults in a mature relationship.
Now, let’s talk about your birthday party.
Oh.
So, what are you working on these days?
What would a one-celled organism have to be embarrassed about?
He was being funny. I’m pretty sure. Anyway, I was asked to be a part of a magazine article about the 50 sexiest female scientists in California. Isn’t that cool?
Why can’t someone be thought of as both smart and pretty?
I was kind of excited about the article, but now you’re making me feel bad.
It was fine, but you’ll be happy to know they pulled the sexy scientists article.
I don’t know. They just canceled the photo shoot and said they’re rethinking it.
I guess. It’s really not that important. Hey, up here.
What? How?
Amy, what did you say?
Because no one wants to see Neil deGrasse Tyson in a wet T-shirt, bent over the hood of a Porsche.
No, what happened was you got jealous, so you took away a chance for me to get some publicity.
That’s for me to decide, not you.
And I think you don’t like people expressing their sexuality because no one wants you to express yours. Oh, Amy, I’m so sorry. That was over the line.
Please don’t go. Up until my vicious attack, you were the one in the wrong.
Oh, good, you’re here. Amy, I am so sorry.
What?
We brought snacks for movie night.
Right here.
Wow, you still have it? I just assumed it was balled up in the corner of a barn somewhere.
Slutty.
How was your prom? Did you go?
My prom was pretty terrible, too. I was so excited about my date, but it turned out he only asked me ’cause he liked my friend. He spent the whole night talking about her.
Easy for you to say; you probably went with the captain of the football team.
Ooh, I have an idea. Maybe we can have, like, a prom do-over.
Ooh, and get our hair done, and slow-dance.
Ooh, every single person RSVP’d yes. This is so exciting. Isn’t this exciting?
Look, even Stuart’s bringing a date. I wonder who it is.
Because he’s our friend, and you two need to get along. And why can’t he take your mom? You took her to your prom.
I saw a picture of you two dancing together.
That’s a neat tattoo.
Aw, that movie’s so cute.
I like Cinderella.
I like Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo.
What?
That’s Jeanie?
So, you knew and you brought her anyway?
Yeah, go have weird relationships with your own mother and cousin. This is his turf.
Howie, get off of him.
Not anymore.
Well, what are some of the things they like?
He said that to her?
They’re yours in the divorce.
Hi.
Oh, muffin much.
He’s just not laughing because he’s feeling blueberry. Tough crowd.
Well, of course. I would be devastated if my parents split up.
Well, at least he stuck around, not like your dad, who just took off.
Sorry, Raj. Do you have any sense of what happened with your folks?
It’s a shame they spent all that time unhappy. But sometimes, there’s muffin you can do about it. You get it, right?
Can I tell you something? This whole thing with Raj’s parents just got me a little worried about us.
What?
I’m not joking, Howie. You heard what he said about his parents. It was the little things they kept bottled up. I don’t want that to happen to us.
Well, is there anything about me you’re keeping inside?
So there are things you don’t like.
Just tell me one thing that bothers you, and I promise I won’t get mad.
Oh. Howie, be serious.
Okay, fine, maybe it was a bad idea.
Who were you in couples therapy with?
Was it your mom?
It was your mom.
Oh, that’s so sweet. I want to do that.
Okay, um, I love that you make me laugh.
And yet, I still love when you hold a door for me.
Uh-huh. And I love that I work and do all the cleaning, and you’re okay with that.
I love that you take pride in your looks, even when I have to pee in the morning, and you’re in there spending an hour on your hair.
I love that you have the confidence to speak, even without giving it an ounce of thought.
Oh, how is she?
Hey, what are you talking about?
Oh, yeah. I remember him from the picnic. He was the one crying like a wuss the whole time.
Just builds character. Like my dad said, nobody likes a crybaby except their mommies and Democrats.”
What’s his problem?
Well, I didn’t think you were supposed to say sissy anymore.
What? I’m, like, the sweetest person I know. Look at me. I should be in a tree baking cookies.
Oh, yeah? You one of those people?
I’m not a bully. I mean, maybe I come off a little strong, but that’s only because my dad raised me to be tough and not to take crap from anybody.
I did say that, didn’t I?
Where? To Babies R Us?
Okay, sorry. Can we just go? I feel like everybody hates me.
I think I’d rather go.
Thank you.
Dan, could I talk to you for a minute?
Just want you to know I didn’t mean to be rude about your grandson.
No, it’s not. Penny told me that everyone’s scared of me.
No, she’s right, and I just want you to know that from now on, I’m gonna be much more sensitive. I don’t want anyone walking on eggshells around me.
No problem. When does that start?
What?
Who’s been paying for my coffee?
What else don’t I know about?
Yeah?
You’re kidding.
I feel so bad.
Oh, my God. I thought everybody liked me, but I’m just a monster.
No, I’m the worst. I’m a terrible person.
It’s not okay. How can I even work here anymore?
I can’t let you do that.
I guess that would be all right.
You’re right. Now where did we land on my bathroom?
I think a Victorian Christmas sounds nice.
Maybe you’d like it more if you thought of Santa as a superhero and his power is bringing joy to children.
Okay, new subject. Let’s talk about presents. What did you get Amy?
Come on, Sheldon, you have to get her something.
She’s just excited about the holidays.
How?
What?
Yeah, you’re gonna have to walk me through that.
Then you’re both sad?
So your evil plot here is to buy your girlfriend a present?
What about that sweater?
I think the nicest gifts I’ve got from Howie show how well he knows me.
Wow, you really do love her.
You feeling okay? You hardly touched your goose.
You okay?
I told you not to wax down there. It’s itchy when it grows back.
What’s he talking about?
All I have is our new urine flow drug. Won’t help with his anxiety, but it’s so strong, when he pees he’ll fly around the room like he’s got a jet pack.
You know, worrying won’t have any effect on what happens.
We were talking about Penny’s job.
Well, they’re not a hundred percent wolf. They’re a werewolf, that’s only part wolf. It’s like comparing apples to oranges.
Emily’s feelings?
What happened?
Don’t you think you should make him stop all this?
Okay, movie night, what do you want to watch?
Search for it.
‘Cause it would be fun to watch.
Well, now we have two reasons.
Please, can we watch it?
Well, maybe it turned out better than you think.
Ho-ho, it really didn’t.
No, give me the remote.
Okay, I learned my lesson. Making fun of people is wrong.
‘Cause it’s embarrassing.
Yeah, well, Amy writes Little House on the Prairie fan fiction about herself and posts it on the Internet.
Sorry, I had to get the spotlight off me, and tearing down other women is part of my pageant training.
We got embarrassed tonight. Come on.
Please?
Why? Why did it feel different?
Wow, even in your fantasies Sheldon’s kind of exhausting.
Here we go.
Oh, Amelia.
Because she wanted him to give her the part she needed.
I was just kidding. I’m sorry. And the story’s really good.
Please?
But they didn’t even kiss.
Not now!
Your mom having fun in Florida?
She’s just being nice.
Because you have a wife.
I know you don’t like Stuart being in the house, but the store’s about to reopen, I’m sure he’ll get back on his feet.
Well, normal’s a strong word, but sure.
Stuart, this place looks amazing.
Howie.
Why don’t we leave so you can cool off?
I understand why you’re upset, but he worked really hard to get the store ready. And it’s just furniture.
Howie, if the store succeeds, Stuart has a source of income, and he can move out of your mother’s house. Seems like some old furniture is a reasonable price to pay for that.
This is why I had to rewrite our wedding vows.
Can you please just let it go?
You helped him?
What?
Oh, my God, Howie.
Eight sixteen.
Just drop it.
Um, well, it’s, uh, black. There’s a red ribbon tied to the handle.
So, where is it?
Sure you don’t want to go home? When the bag’s returned, they’ll deliver it to us.
All right, we’ll wait.
What?
There’s no way you could’ve known. Be right back. Excuse me?
You better find my husband’s mother ’cause one way or another, w e’re walking out of this airport with a dead woman.
Okay, thank you so much.
Oh, no. That thing’s gonna end up in my bedroom.
Okay. But you got a lot of receipts for the Lego store in here.
A two hundred dollar R2-D2 is a business expense?
What’s happening?
Aw. I’m gonna miss her.
Well, maybe this is what you get for snooping.
She sounds really mad.
Yeah, we should.
Not a chance.
Howard, you’re going to jail for tax fraud. Who cares?
Well, it’ll be good that you’re there. Howard’s been having trouble deciding what to keep and what to let go.
Is that why you couldn’t get rid of her drawer full of ketchup packets?
What happened?
Howie, what’s wrong?
It’s okay. It’s just food.
Well, why don’t we take it home and put it in our freezer?
What should we do?
There’s, like, twenty pounds of food in there.
Howie.
I love that.
Thanks.
Did she throw anything away?
You okay?
Should we tell everyone not to come?
Okay. Well, I’ll keep it together if you can.
Yeah, we just want to have the kind of dinner that we’ve all had here so many times before.
No, we got it. You guys make yourselves comfortable.
Oh, that’s fine.
Hey. Sheldon, Leonard, living room, right now!
Good news, I found more Tums.
So, I put stickers on everything we’re gonna sell. We just need help taking it all out to the driveway.
You know, you can leave one side up and play against it.
I think you just answered your own question.
Sweetie, we have a lot to do. We don’t need to decide this right now.
Of course.
It’s tricky finding the right balance between tasteful modern and Jewish mother tchotchke crapfest.
You can’t just decide. How about I arm-wrestle you?
How is that fair? You grew up with a table.
Yes, Penny plays for me.
Leonard makes you watch that, too?
Hey, Raj. if Howard can’t keep the TARDIS, how great would it look at your place?
I don’t know much about Doctor Who, but if, um, you were to put this right outside your front door and open up the back, it would be like your entire apartment was the inside of the TARDIS, which is pretty cool ’cause on the show, the inside of the TARDIS is bigger than the outside. But then again, I don’t know much about<i> Doctor Who.
Well, if you can switch champions, so can I. I want Raj.
Oh, come on, like you even care.
Except, Raj is gonna win. Isn’t that right, Raj?
Come on, get in her head. Be intimidating.
Hey.
Don’t listen to him, all she’s got is a serve. Now, grab a fresh tampon and put her away.
One-five. Two-five. Three-five. Four-five. Five-five.
Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten-ten.
You know, Amy, I, uh, can’t help but wonder how Sheldon would react if the TARDIS was at your place.
If this doesn’t get him into your bedroom, nothing will.
Hey, Raj.
Oh, that’s a lot of Girl Scout Cookies.
You know, I’m thinking ripping up the carpets, maybe lose the wallpaper, all new light fixtures.
Okay, okay. When he’s at Comic-Con, I’m bringing in a wrecking ball.
Oh, let me do it, Howard.
So, Josh, what do you do?
Oh, how nice. I loved Finding Nemo.
Why don’t you help with the coffee?
Howie, have you noticed how often people say that when you start to do magic?
Keep dreaming.
He did it with a robot.
What’s going on in here?
Oh. How do you drink it?
I think I’ll have a beer.
Why?
Is this about the space probe he’s working on without you?
Howard, you’re grown men. You guys don’t have to do everything together.
Trying to hurt Raj’s feelings.
You’re being childish.
I’m sorry. What do we know?
Don’t take this the wrong way, but how many of these little booze balls have you had?
I was kidding. Of course you are.
You better not change, because I love who you are. Now, will you need help cleaning all this up when you’re done or can you do it all by yourself?
There’s my big boss man.
Well, I’m glad you have a new appreciation for your job.
Properly, at all. It’s just words I’ve never heard.
You’re welcome. Hey, now that you’re making some real money, maybe you can take your friend out for a nice thank-you dinner.
How about now?
Don’t forget your wallet.
Well, now you get to go back as a successful scientist.
I have the tool you wanted.
Why don’t you just call tech support?
What?
I call tech support all the time.
Four hours of our lives gone? Check.
Ready to call tech support?
Maybe you shouldn’t be flying it inside.
Stuart.
We talked about this. I don’t mind you still living here, but we got to have some rules. And rule number one is pants.
Guys. In the time you’ve been sitting here playing video games, I got the car washed, picked up cleaning supplies and went to the bank.
Okay, I don’t know when I became the mother to three lazy teenagers, but it stops today. You guys are cleaning the kitchen, top to bottom.
Yes or no, do you have clothes in my laundry right now?
Look at that. You cleaned it up all by yourself.
You mean ’cause she has weird tattoos?
The only issue is that everybody has their own thing, and as long as it’s two consenting adults, I guess I don’t see the harm in it.
Well, then I guess bring a blanket. The grass gets damp at night.
I think if Raj wants to break up with a girl, he can do it.
I don’t know.
That’s not true. We were just laughing right in your face.
Did you eat all my yoghurt?
You know which yoghurt I mean.
Maybe Raj is right. Maybe it’s time we tell him he needs to move out.
I know, but his store was reopening, and then there were the holidays, and then he was sick.
All right. Tonight’s the night.
Ooh, I like when you take charge.
Right.
Howard Joel Wolowitz, you get back here.
Don’t let that sway you.
So, we need to talk.
Well, you’ve been living here a while now.
Yeah.
So, anyway, what I’m trying to say is…
Our pleasure. You feeling okay?
Howard.
For God’s sake, Sheldon, what are you doing?
Howard, do something.
Sheldon, shh. The wedding’s starting.
Aw, that was beautiful.
No, we totally won.
Amy.
I know it hurts now, but it’s gonna get better.
That’s true.
What happened? They just got married.
Think they’ll break up?
Hands off. I’m mad at you.
What will pay for itself?
I’m mad at you for blabbing to me what Leonard did on the North Sea, and I’m mad that I’ve had to hide this from Penny for two years.
I mean, if Penny finds out I’ve known all this time and haven’t told her, she’s gonna think I’m a terrible friend. I wish you never told me.
I guess that’s true.
I don’t know what to think. But then again, I just found out about it.
Oh, I don’t know. This is all so new to me. I’m still processing.
You know, if you think about it, without you, he never would’ve grown into the person he is now. I mean, sure, more women might notice him, but I think it’s better to have a guy be with you because he wants to be and not because he thinks he doesn’t have any other choice.
Oh, me neither, not until just now.
Come on, Leonard’s doing bachelor stuff. You sure we can’t take you to a strip club?
Oh, look, Jewish and gentile.
I hope the boys don’t get too crazy in Mexico.
You guys still aren’t living together?
Speaking of Sheldon, how’s single life treating you?
Good for you.
Good for you.
Your sweater?
Your hair?
You really never had that done?
We’ll take you to the mall to get it done.
This party’s weird.
Amy, I noticed your status still says in a relationship on Facebook.
Did you change yours to married yet?
What?
What about your sister’s wedding?
Yeah, isn’t it gonna get worse the longer you wait?
That’s a joke, right?
Bet she’d still tell her if she got married.
It’s understandable. Amy was afraid to tell her mom she broke up with Sheldon.
Okay, Amy, your turn.
What did we do?
Really? They didn’t eat him?
The breakfast meat family?
Of course.
Aw. I’m honoured.
So, I’m your seventh choice.
How can I help you?
Well, why don’t you look at this as an opportunity? You had other roommates before Leonard. Maybe this is a chance to find someone new.
Hey. You know who would be the perfect roomie?
Stuart. He’s been living with us for a while now. I’m sure he’d love to get us out of his hair.
Well, Sheldon’s looking for a roommate.
He’ll think about it.
I can’t believe Sheldon asked you to be his roommate.
Hey, if you’re open to living with someone great, I’ll give you a thousand dollars to take Stuart.
I’m sorry. I just thought you might have a pasty, weirdo-shaped hole in your life.
Sure. So how can we help?
You are.
Was it?
That really happened?
Stuart took that rejection like a pro.
Oh, you get used to it. Some guys you have to turn down over and over.
Oh. Look at you, two guys in one day.
What did he say?
What can it hurt?
You mean, not a scientist?
Are you attracted to him?
Yeah.
Walk.
Howie?
Why does your Fitbit say you ran 174 miles yesterday?
Hey, you know who went out on a date the other night? Stuart.
I thought so, too.
He’s using some kind of dating app on his phone.
I don’t know. Stuart, can you come in here? He tried to explain it to me. It shows you pictures of people nearby, you swipe them around, it looks kind of like a game.
Can you show us that dating app?
Oh, what would make you give a girl a thumbs down?
Yeah, Stuart got two dates with it.
Doesn’t a teardrop tattoo mean he murdered someone?
Hey, I thought you were gonna be out late?
We put Amy on a dating app, and we’re seeing what’s out there.
Ew, check out his tiny teeth. He looks like a man-dolphin.
And I’d love to take you out again”?
Yeah, why wouldn’t you tell us?
What?
I, I thought you weren’t ready to start seeing people.
And how many guys have you gone out with?
Hey. You got a minute?
Pause the game, Howard.
We need to talk about redecorating this place.
Look, I get that you grew up here and you’re attached to things looking a certain way, but I want this to feel like my house, too.
All right. Let’s start over. I’m redecorating. The furniture, the carpeting, the walls. I’m changing everything that depresses me when I look at it. Try not to be one of those things.
Is it about how I can’t have new wallpaper ’cause your dad left when you were little and your mom died?
Whatcha doing?
Okay, listen, I’m thinking that maybe we can compromise on the house.
Let’s just redo one room and see how it goes.
How ’bout this one?
Then how ’bout the bathroom?
Fine. Then the dining room.
Great. I’m gonna go pick out paint samples.
Hey, Raj. Dad and I were just talking about taking down this wall.
Seriously? You brought Raj over to take your side?
He’s not on my side. He’s doing all the work for free.
Aftershock.
So I should probably explain why I kind of fibbed.
I told my dad that you were the one who didn’t want kids because I didn’t want to disappoint him.
Turns out yeah, I didn’t think twice about it.
Oh, please. Mom did everything. All you did was come home from work, sit on the couch and drink beer. How is that raising kids?
Why?
Okay, I’ll think about it.
It’s an actual I’ll think about it.
I know you would.
Yeah, it’s your third date, maybe you could go more sexy.
Ooh, tall. Finally some details about this mystery man.
Did you kiss him yet?
Tea and basketball?
Oh, nice.
Hey, you want to swing by that place tonight and get a look at this guy?
I’ll just call the restaurant, pretend I’m Amy and check the reservation.
Yeah, but I’m little, so it’s adorable.
Across the street, in the left window.
Right here.
Kinda. Before I met Howie, I liked to keep close tabs on my boyfriends.
No. Stalkers are creepy. I’m just a harmless little girl with military-grade spy equipment.
He’s cute, right?
Yeah, I should’ve brought my parabolic microphone.
Nothing. Not important.
I took a video. I forgot how much fun this is.
Why’d you bring him?
Ugh, I hear that.
Right here.
Hey, hey, they’re leaving.
We got to get out of here.
He and his tiny bladder can take the bus.
Hi, Ames, what are you doing here?
And Raj and I are volunteering at the soup kitchen, feeding food to the homeless.
You said that sounded like the worst thing ever.
The soup kitchen manager assigns the jobs, and the shifts are six hours.
We are, and I believe the word you’re looking for is yu-huh-huh-huh.
Hi. We’d like to volunteer.
Oh. Okay. Wipe that smug smile off your face.
That he’s an ass? He beat you to it.
Oh, great. We’d love to help.
I can’t.
What difference does it make?
I’ll do it.
Happy Thanks… Yikes.
So, you’re really going out with Dave again?
But he spent an entire date talking about how much he loves Sheldon.
Okay. So where’s he taking you?
Oh. That’s a big step.
Yeah. You’re inviting him into your home. It’s intimate. It’s where your underpants live.
You sure? You’ve never really been with a man. Do you really want to start with one that’s six-foot-seven?
‘Cause it’s like taking your driver’s test in a bus.
Who’s Trent?
Fan of what?
You mean because you played one time in the comic book store?
Are you stalking him? That’s creepy.
Maybe I should marry Trent.
What happens if I say, come in?
Come in.
Just come in.
Sure.
How about something a little more realistic?
Hold on. It could be romantic. The two of them away together, keeping each other warm in snowy Wisconsin.
Wild thang.
Yeah, are you ready for this?
So where do you want to go?
Great. And then maybe after, we can watch a dirty movie, and if anybody has any questions about what happened or how, we can answer them.
We don’t want to spoil anything, but you should know that Sheldon said he’s ready to be physical.
Well, we’re really happy for you, and we know how much he cares…
No, they’re not.
Do you think Sheldon’s actually gonna go through with it?
Yeah, but he also swore this was the year he’d be able to pull the guts out of a pumpkin.
It was. I just wish Stuart wasn’t around so we didn’t have to be so quiet.
No, it’s okay.
So, when are you thinking of moving?
Oh. Okay. Sorry to see you go?
: You’re very welcome.
Great. I can finally show you where the laundry room is.
Nobody thought that.
I guess so.
Ignore him. He’s just using humour to express how happy he is.
Sure he does. Well, let us know when you’re all settled in.
Our pleasure.
Goodbye.
Boy, when was the last time Stuart cleaned this place?
Howie, I don’t want to play Lego, Toenail or Pill anymore. So, what do you think we should do with this room?
Why can’t it be a woman cave?
I’m being serious.
I don’t know, maybe a home office or, oh look. The teddy bear Stuart won the night we took him to the fair.
Yeah. You know, no matter how hard they tried, they could not guess his age.
Have you heard from him since he left?
Hmm. Maybe he’s busy.
No, that’s not what this feeling is. Is it?
And he tried to deny it, but his teeth were all purple.
Yeah. Ew, we are missing him!
Maybe he uses Kryptonite.
We could do a double feature with the Leonardo Di Caprio Romeo and Juliet.
I brought you a little care package from work. It’s our latest antiviral and the best decongestant we make.
You’re gonna want to take these with food.
Forgiven, forgiven.
And he made it all better.
You know what that means.
This is so cool.
Ooh, work that thing.
Okay, so you met this girl, you exchanged numbers, and you’re gonna meet up with her.
Oh. Well, I guess that’s not so bad.
I’m sure it was harmless. People flirt. No big deal.
Not you. I own your ass. The real question is, where are you with Emily?
Absolutely.
Howie, you forget how much of our early dates involved you doing magic and me doing this.
No, you didn’t.
Well, it doesn’t matter now, ’cause I love how things worked out.
Made up my mind to date both of them by pretending to be twin brothers.
You’re right. It could totally happen.
You still have a girlfriend.
Are you gonna tell Emily?
Don’t make it too hot.
Look at that, you shaved it all.
Ew, really? Get it out.
Uh, wish we had a skimmer.
I don’t know how to turn off the jets.
I’m gonna put this down your robe. It’s not moving, but I think it’s still alive.
No. No, and it’s not a rat, it’s a rabbit. We need to save it.
Um, I don’t know, look it up on your phone. I’m gonna wrap it in a towel.
Anything else?
He’s eating. That’s a good sign.
He’s pretty cute.
It is Valentine’s Day. How about Valentino?
Are you okay?
Oh. Well, why did you put your finger near its mouth?
He’s so little. I’m sure it’s fine.
Oh, terrific.
If you’re really worried, we’ll take him to the vet and have him tested.
Oh, cut off his head? That’s where his little nose is.
Howie, this is just your hypochondria.
We’ll find another time to tell him I’m pregnant.
Morning.
I don’t know. Maybe it says something on the back.
What could it be? We are Groot? We are the champions? We are family? I got all my sisters with me?
Yeah.
Pretty positive. That’s a joke, because the pregnancy test says…
I know, it’s crazy.
Oh, it’s okay, you’ll figure it out.
I don’t know, Howie.
Calm down, it’s gonna be okay.
So, I’m glad you guys are here. There’s something I want to share with you. Howie and I are going to…
I’m pregnant.
Yeah, it’s all real exciting.
I am. Of-of course I am. I’m, I’m sure it’s just the hormones. But it’s weird, Howie’s the one who’s been talking about having kids for years, and I was all excited to tell him because I thought he’d be thrilled, but then he started to flip out and now this feels like a bad idea and I’m gonna get fat.
Easy for you to say, skinny bitch. Sorry, hormones.
You’re probably right. After we talked about it, he started to calm down.
Where?
Can’t drink.
Doctor said I can’t have sushi.
Doctor said I can’t go in the hot tub.
I kind of already do that for Howie.
Well, we didn’t exactly decide. We were talking about it, and then one night we got a little reckless.
No, I’m embarrassed.
Fine. We were out one night, and things got a little spontaneous.
Well, Sheldon was going on and on about time zones and railroad schedules, and I went out…
Kind of on Sheldon’s bed.
I was headed to the bathroom, and I passed Howie on his way out. Usually he says, do not go in there, but this time he said, hey, let’s go in here.
I’m sorry, but you know what it’s like when you’re with your man and one thing leads to another.
You guys can go in if you want.
That sounds fun.
How is that a drunk text?
Sure.
It’s okay to be nervous. I am, too.
Me, too.
I appreciate this, but you really…
What kind of cake do you like?
No, no, no. Come on in.
Doing great.
Yeah.
I can’t think of anything to say that hasn’t already been said, so, here’s to you, Sheldon.
A little. And it doesn’t help that I’ve got this heightened sense of smell.
Yeah. The other day I sniffed out where Howie hid the Girl Scout cookies. No more Tagalongs, my ass.
That’s nice.
You don’t think she’d actually send you something gross or dangerous, do you?
Although I am getting a little machine oil. I think it’s metal.
What is that?
I wonder how much she spent on this.
Damn. All I got for Valentine’s Day was a postcard saying my Vermont Teddy Bear was back-ordered.
Or she’s telling the truth and just being nice.
Well, if you change your mind, we’ll be here.
I’m a little tired, Howie. You ready to go?
What is it?
So, you’re just gonna sign this without having a lawyer look at it?
I know, but…
Well, I should hope so. The whole thing was your idea.
If you want to sign a contract that Sheldon whipped up, go ahead.
Sure.
I just want to make sure you’ve thought this through.
Howie, you’re about to form a legal partnership with Sheldon Cooper.
I’m not worried about you. I’m worried about me. I don’t want to go through this pregnancy listening to you complain about Sheldon driving you crazy more than you already do.
You’ve tried to work with him before. It hasn’t gone well. Why is this time gonna be any different?
Are you saying that his contributions aren’t as valuable as yours?
How would you enforce it?
25% of profits due to Sheldon Cooper will be allocated to a scholarship fund for the firstborn child of Howard and Bernadette Wolowitz. Sheldon, that’s so nice.
We heard there were some sexy scientists working hard all weekend.
Can we really help?
Sometimes he solders at home with his shirt off. It’s like a beer commercial.
I’m kind of getting into the groove here.
It is crazy. It’s also crazy that I’ve made fourteen of these and you’ve made three.
Since when do you work on weekends?
Not with Lightning McQueen here.
I feel bad. Should we have asked him to stay?
What’s going on?
Son of a bitch.
Yeah, let’s see how deep a hole they can dig for themselves.
Okay. Okay, how about this? They don’t know you’re here with us, so you hide in the closet. When they show up, we’ll hear whatever their dumb story is about where they were, we’ll pretend to believe them and just when they think they got away with it, you jump out.
Go hide.
Oh. Well, thank you for being honest.
It’s okay. They apologized.
Should we invite Raj?
Come on, Raj, give me a bag.
Uh, Raj took me to the baby doctor and then we swung by the grocery store.
Yes and yes.
I didn’t, but Raj volunteered.
Yeah, ever since you told him I was pregnant, he’s really been making a fuss over me.
Raj found all these childbirth videos online. This one is of a woman giving birth in a river.
I don’t think so. He just wants to be part of the experience.
Oh, it’s an ultrasonic microphone so we can hear the baby’s heartbeat.
Actually, Raj ordered it. He made me promise to wait till he was here.
Yeah.
It’s a sore spot, don’t bring it up.
Leave it alone. He means well.
No, not really.
He’s just trying to be supportive.
No.
You saw him carrying that.
And, of course, Howie and I both want you to be a part of all this.
Raj, Raj, wait.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I can’t tell anymore.
And bring back the bear.
I hear that.
Of course.
I’m not hearing anything.
Wait, that’s it.
Isn’t that the best?
Hey, Raj.
Good. A little tired.
You guys have fun. I’m just gonna snuggle up in bed with a book.
He’s gonna be okay.
Why are you dressed like that?
That wasn’t nice.
You all right?
It’s okay, you should go.
Of course.
Me? How? Why?
Gee, Sheldon, I don’t know.
I guess we could give it a try.
I brought sparkling cider.
So what do you want to do tonight?
There’s more than one?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I’m sorry, I have to ask.
What is it about trains that you like so much?
That’s lovely, Sheldon.
Dungeons & Dragons? That sounds about right.
Okay, but just for a little bit.
All right.
You bet.
Oh. I like the idea of being tall.
This is getting fun. What’s next?
Oh, I haven’t had a drink in months.
I storm in, slam my sword down, and say, barkeep, bring me the strongest ale you have and serve it in the skull of a goblin.
Does it have eyes?
I stab it in the middle eye.
Okay, I guess I should eat the Hell Prawn.
Wow, this night turned out to be so much more fun than I thought.
Thank you for this. You know, ever since people found out I’m having a baby, I feel like I became Pregnant Bernadette. It was nice to take a little break tonight.
Well, thanks again.
I might just take you up on that.
Amy’s with Sheldon who she loves like a son. You’re with her son, who she doesn’t.
So, Beverly, did you know Penny is the number three sales rep at our pharmaceutical company?
Well, we don’t exactly. I’m a microbiologist for the research team.
Some exciting new anti-anxiety drugs.
Well, let’s get back to Penny. Hey, weren’t you telling me something great about your company car?
Do I think he’d be interested? Sometimes I hear him pretending to be interviewed when he’s alone in the bathroom.
Um, you should probably talk to Penny, too.
But we did get to see a live stream of it on the Internet.
Howie? You doing okay? You’ve been in there a while.
Who’s going to officiate?
Who’s Erno Rubik?
Well, it’s very sweet of you to go to all this trouble for Leonard’s mother.
Come on, Howard, you’re overreacting.
You do realize those weren’t documentaries, right?
Guys, come on. We’re meeting everyone for dinner.
Are you done with this nonsense?
Oh, stop. You know what’s really happening? All the movies you’ve watched, the TV shows, the comic books, they’ve completely twisted your thinking. No one’s after you, no one’s listening to you, no one cares about you.
You’re being ridiculous.
It’s probably just a coincidence. Speed up a little, see if he stays with you.
Do not pull over. I’m not raising this baby alone.
Because you were driving like a lunatic.
It didn’t help that you couldn’t walk a straight line when the cop pulled you over.
Yeah, if you want to go off the grid, you have to move out of your mother’s house.
Howard, please just call the man, see what he wants.
Okay, I think we’re ready.
We’re here today to celebrate love.
Not just Leonard and Penny’s love, but the love we have for them, as well as each other.
Love is patient, but it’s not gonna put up with all the side chatter, so let’s knock it off.
Howard.
Anybody have anything snarky to say about that? Didn’t think so.
Thank you. All right, let’s continue.
Okay. I now pronounce you husband and wife. And weird other husband who came with the apartment.
I’m worried about Howard. Ever since that guy from the Air Force showed up, he’s been a nervous wreck.
He won’t take any pills that aren’t chewable and shaped like a Flintstone.
I don’t believe this.
This guy from the office just congratulated me on being pregnant.
No one at the office did. Did you tell anyone?
I bet it was Barbara Chen in retrovirus. She might have heard me throwing up one morning. Every since she got the hearing aid, she thinks she’s so great.
‘Cause I’m up for a major immunotherapy study, and if they find out I’m pregnant they might give it to someone else.
I know they would, they did it to Barbara Chen last year when I told everyone she was pregnant.
I had a plan. I kept leaving Dove Bar wrappers around to explain any weight gain.
From all the Dove Bars I ate. I’m pregnant. Try to keep up. I’m sorry, I have to go find out if my boss knows.
Thanks. You guys are the best.
I forgot my coat.
Hey. What brings you by?
Oh. How was it?
Fell asleep?
I’m furious.
No. I confronted Barbara Chen, but she claimed she didn’t know what I was talking about.
It had to be Barbara. I’ve been trying to figure out a way to get back at her. Do you think using her work computer to Google how to be a prostitute is over the line?
What kind of revenge is that? This woman screwed with my job. She’s got to pay.
Why did you do that?
Get out.
Oh, thanks. You know, I just wanted to get some work done without people congratulating me about the baby every five minutes.
Did you come here to bring me dinner or to gloat?
I’m sorry. My boss wants to meet with me, and I’m stressing.
Are you kidding? I’ve always been treated differently. Look at me. Listen to me. I mean, the first thought when you see me isn’t that’s a scientist, it’s I wonder if her mommy
I’ve worked so hard to get where I am, and I don’t want to get sent back to square one because I’m pregnant.
Thank you.
Well, you brought me French fries. That’s a start.
Apple slices? What kind of lunatic goes to McDonald’s and gets fruit?
And a chocolate shake.
Got a minute?
I just wanted to apologize. I know what you did was an accident.
For what it’s worth, you’re a great liar.
Well, my boss said he hadn’t decided yet, so I gently reminded him that he’s an old rich white guy, and I’m a sweet little pregnant lady who’s not afraid to crying front of a jury.
Hey, I learned a long time ago, when you’re four feet eleven and eye level with every guy’s crotch, that’s where you punch.
Do you know what? It’s just a research project. The most important job in the world is gonna be raising this child. It’s all I need to give my life meaning.
You believe me? Oh, good. 11 more chumps like you, I’ll have the jury eating out of my hand.
It’s okay.
You shouldn’t have made the alarm code his birthday.
Oh, I appreciate it, but you don’t have to spend your day off with me.
Not really.
I get enough of that when I take Howard to my grandmother’s for Christmas.
Isn’t it a little early for that?
Oh, there’s so much junk in there, it’s embarrassing.
I don’t think you are.
I don’t even know where to begin.
Oh, I was gonna start at the end. Thank God you’re here.
Sorry. I should probably keep this in case we have a girl.
My dad built it for me.
This was the husband and this was the wife. They’d go out on adventures together. Cruises, skiing, horseback riding. That was really me just duct taping them to our dog.
They did, but the mommy and daddy didn’t like them, so they shipped them off to an orphanage I made out of a shoebox.
Not every girl dreams about being a mom. Sometimes you think you’re never gonna have kids and one day you wake up and you’re pregnant. And it doesn’t matter that your career’s going great right now and that you and your husband never even got to go anywhere taped to a dog.
Sorry I flipped out on you. I think it’s just hormones.
Does it really need one?
Well, it doubled as my dad’s office, and he was a cop, so I guess the theme was bloody homicide photos.
Are you just gonna name all the colours?
I don’t care what colour the room is.
Well, you’re not, so just drop it. I’m clearly upset. Why aren’t you following me?
I don’t know.
Raj, why don’t I care about anything?
It’s my baby. I, I should care about nurseries and colours, and I don’t. What’s wrong with me?
I keep waiting to feel excited, but it’s not happening. What if it never happens?
Once, I was supposed to babysit my brothers. Our neighbour found them naked in the backyard eating crickets.
What? Why? Who are you calling? You’re gonna rat me out to Howard, aren’t you? You’re such a snitch, no wonder I don’t like you.
Something’s wrong. I don’t care about any of the baby stuff every other mom is so into. Honestly, I’m not even sure I like babies.
But I thought I’d be more excited.
Thank you. I feel better now.
It would help if you stopped telling me I have a textbook cervix.
Let me see the sonogram again. Oh, yeah, that’s a good-looking baby for a little grey blob.
What if it’s a girl?
Are we being silly not finding out the sex?
Hmm. The doctor’s gone for the day, so it doesn’t matter.
You looked in our folder?!
God, Raj.
We don’t want you to know.
This is ridiculous. The doctor knows what the baby is, the ultrasound tech knows, Raj knows, his Grey’s Anatomy online fan group probably knows. Is it weird we don’t?
I was disappointed to see the man I was engaged to pulling rainbow scarves out of his fly.
Everyone said I could do better.
Good. Call him. Wait, I’m not sure I want to know.
Well, now I don’t know if I want to know!
Yes.
Wait.
Next vomit is gonna be in your lap.
But it’s our last chance to take a vacation that’s just the two of us.
Keeping secrets from our friends, it does sound kinda fun.
You just heard me throwing up.
You’re so weird.
That feels great.
Can you please stop making money come out of me for two minutes? Was that the front door?
Lock the door, lock the door.
Uh, I left my phone downstairs.
Wait, I have my iPad.
That’s not helpful.
Let me know when you start, because that wasn’t funny.
Who would use our hot tub?
Who is it?
Should we say something to him?
I meant like, what are you doing here?
Is it me, or is there something fun about watching him just float there?
Is someone else here?
What?
I told you raccoons don’t say uh-oh.
You said you got it back.
Why wouldn’t he tell us? Are we bad friends?
Yeah, he deserves to be alone.
What do you do in there?
What are you doing?
Oh, yeah, that’s where I put it.
Which MIT did you go to?
Howie, we have time to do all that stuff.
The next person kicking you will be me. Good night.
I warned you, and I did it.
Hey, where you been?
You bought a crib without me?
Sounds expensive.
Fine.
You bought a minivan?
I don’t want to drive that. It’s such a mom car.
They thought it at the ultrasound, why not at the car dealership?
I’m probably thinking, where’s my husband, and why isn’t he helping me?
It’s weird that guy thought you were a couple.
Oh, is it your back?
Do we really have to sit for hours in the emergency room? They’re just gonna give you ice and Advil like last time.
Fine, we’ll go to the E.R. Just stop selling me on the van.
I was hoping it’d be quieter.
Soon.
Fine. I’ll buy the stupid van.
Actually, it’s been ready for weeks.
Well, they finished the work early, but she’s been telling Sheldon they’re behind schedule.
Hey.
One sec. Why did you tell Leonard I told you Penny was hiding his things?
Amy, I’m sorry, I shouldn’t have said anything.
Still, I can’t believe you can turn ordinary skin cells into functioning brain cells.
Look at that, put them in a tiny Flash T-shirt and it’s you.
I’m running out of ways to act excited.
Great, the doctor said the baby’s head is facing down now.
Are you actually comparing my human baby to your brain in a bowl?
You do realize my baby has functioning organs and can recognize voices.
Mine has a fully developed immune system.
Who is it?
Where did you get that?
Why would you buy it?
Last question. What is wrong with you?
Howie, it’s in poor taste.
Okay, call him and show him. I dare you.
Fine, then do it.
While you’re bothering the world’s most famous scientist, be sure to show him how funny he looks getting stuck under our dishwasher.
I can’t imagine you being violent.
I thought it was brave. Does that count as liking it?
I think he looks cute.
Stuart, you didn’t have to get us a baby gift.
A foot massage?
How come this one’s on the back of an eviction notice?
Stuart, we’d love to help you out, but this a bad time, we’re about to have a baby.
Thank you, but I’m not really sure.
I guess you could stay for a few days and we’ll see how it goes.
Hmm. Actually I just did that this morning.
I did that, too.
Howard just did that.
Stuart, you cooked?
There’s only three people in this house, and you’d still be my fifth guess.
You have a Batsuit.
Yeah, we’ve been meaning to do that.
Thank you again for cooking. It’s getting tough for me to be on my feet all day.
Do something, Batman.
Great, go with the giraffes.
Yeah, you’re probably right, go with the zebras.
Hey, could you please go to the market for me?
Howie, they’ve been doing everything for you.
Please just go to the store.
Take Raj. Stuart is supposed to paint my toenails.
I think I’m in labour.
I love you, too.
Here comes another contraction.
I’m sorry. It’s our first time.
Not that old school. He knows.
We showed up too early. We’ll keep you posted.
Do you really need to record this?
Raj.
How could you?
Raj.
Here comes another one. Hey, Squinty, the gas pedal’s on the right.
I’m so thirsty. Give me more ice chips.
We could name her after your mom.
Did she have a middle name?
Let’s keep thinking.
I know.
She did always have candy in her pocket.
I didn’t know her five minutes and she asked, are you a Milky Way or a Snickers girl?
I remember thinking this is stupid, and I was right.
No. If one more person puts their fingers near my uterus, I’m gonna cross my legs and snap ’em off.
Hi.
Sorry we’re late.
Really? So you can control it?
I couldn’t explain it if I tried.
It’s like I was excited for a present and got socks.
Sure.
It’s been wonderful, Sheldon, thanks for asking.
Oh, please stop crying, I’m begging you. I don’t know what else to do. My boobs are empty. Do you want lasagna? Shh, shh, shh, it’s okay, it’s okay. Shh. What have we done?
It took me two hours to get her down.
That was so fast.
Yeah, he has a gift.
Nothing, these are happy tears.
No they’re not, you bozo. How come Stuart can get her to stop crying, but I can’t?
Not funny.
Everyone’s a better mom than me.
How can she hate me? I make her food in my chest. It’s like hating a frozen yogurt machine.
Now you hate me too.
Thank you, Sheldon, I’m feeling better now.
Yeah, eventually I figured out how to get the baby to sleep.
Shh. She’s asleep.
Down here.
I didn’t know what else to do. It worked.
Don’t make me laugh.
I think I live here now. It’s fine.
Yeah, go ahead.
Don’t make me cry, either.
We love you, too.
I could take a bath in the sink. I don’t, but I can.
Yeah, thanks.
Things going well with you and Sheldon living together?
I’ve been seeing him for years, I’m still not convinced he’s real.
Uh oh, what’s going on?
It’s okay, Howie never has on pants. The Domino’s guy brings the pizza like this now.
I have one. What if you got a giant slingshot and flung yourself into the wall?
You actually expect me to do this while holding a baby in the dark.
So, normal.
You know, I just read that a team at MIT. developed a device that helps people read human emotions.
It’s supposed to be accurate, like, 85% of the time.
Wouldn’t that be nice.
I like the first one.
Is that Emily your ex-girlfriend?
Why would you do that, Raj?
You’re not gonna get information, you’re just gonna get criticism that hurts your feelings.
I finally got Halley to sleep.
Let’s see. You’re better than us, a little bit sorry for us, but mostly glad you don’t have to be us.
For Howie’s occupation, should I include that he was an astronaut?
Well, I didn’t. I also skipped a birthing class to see Zootopia so back off.
Sorry. Howie’s back at work and there’s just so much going on.
Sure. Open up a college fund, shop for life insurance, and in the laundry room, there’s a mountain of dirty laundry. Wash it or burn in, your choice. Ugh, be right back.
Oh, thank you.
That sounds really nice.
We will. Got my dancing shoes, got my breast pump. Let’s party.
Call if there’s any problems.
Call me. Don’t call Howard.
Not yet, but we’re gonna apply to a bunch of others just to keep our options open.
Raj, what’s going on?
I’m sure it’s fine, but if you’re worried, there’s extra milk in the freezer.
Stuart, don’t you drink my milk.
You guys got this? Do you need me to come home?
Yeah. I may have just left my infant daughter with Patrick and SpongeBob.
Yeah, we’re all dressed up. Why go home?
What’s going on with you?
I’m not sad. I just wanted to get drunk and not wear sweatpants.
You’re upset I had a baby?
You think that stuff is fun? Being a parent is terrifying. I’m constantly worried, I’m always tired, and in a few minutes I’m gonna milk myself in a bookstore parking lot.
You may not have a house yet, but your apartment’s great.
And Leonard loves you so much, he married you twice.
Careful. The sound of crying can make me lactate.
And there they go.
Oh, it’s okay. It’s good to get out of the house.
That’s so sweet of you.
Oh, I’m sure that’s not true.
Yeah, maybe your dad’s right.
Is it really that high?
Oh, my God, you really are spoiled.
When you moved here, you didn’t have a lot of money. How’d you get by?
I’m sorry, Raj. We really just don’t have the space.
What if you stop helping?
That’s a great idea.
Okay.
Making lasagna.
You want something stupid, or you did something stupid?
Oh, dear God, you’re cheating on me with Raj.
What is it?
It’s so hard to say no to you.
So I’ll say maybe.
You said tickets don’t go on sale till Friday, right?
You said you were gonna do all this stuff for me, right?
See where I’m going with this?
If you don’t know how to make lasagna, Google does.
No.
I really should wear a bell around my neck so you guys can hear me coming.
Thank you.
There she goes.
I appreciate it.
He’s such a sweetie.
If he could find a girl with a job, all his problems would be over.
Kinda.
Howie?
It’s back pay for all the babysitting and taking care of Halley you’ve done.
And you live here for free.
Keep it. Consider it a gift.
What’s the difference?
You just don’t want to go alone with Sheldon.
What’s so funny?
Don’t post that, be supportive.
We’re smart. I’m sure we can think of something.
Oh, we’re smarter than that.
Where would he stay? We already have Stuart.
That sounds awful.
Not for you, box of towels.
It’s fine. It’s just Raj. You can hit him with the bat, but it’s fine.
Don’t do that. We’ll make up the couch for you and figure out something in the morning.
You know she’s at my parents’ house, right?
Just not in our bedroom, you dumbass.
Good. Nobody needs a mooch living in their house forever.
Well, if your idea of fun is riding in a minivan to Target for diapers, things are about to get nuts.
Well, are you worried he’s like another man in her life?
Well, have you talked to them about it?
Look, Raj just gets along with women.
Jennifer still trying to sleep her way to the top?
Yeah, I wish I had that with Howard.
Let’s see, the magic store, the Doctor Who convention, the National Belt Buckle Collector’s meet and greet.
You’re entitled to feel how you feel. If you don’t like it, you should just talk to her.
Oh, then maybe you shouldn’t talk to her.
Hey.
No problem.
Okay.
Already cleared the browser history.
Trying to catch up on office e-mails before I go back.
Yeah, I mean, I’ll miss Halley, but it’ll be nice to get out of the house, be intellectually stimulated. Go out to lunch instead of, you know, be lunch.
Yeah, I mean, with you and my parents, she’s gonna be fine.
And that day care is great.
Plus, I, I think I’m setting a good example for Halley, to show her that women can be mothers and still have satisfying careers. Sure, she won’t know where I went or if I’m ever coming back. That’ll just make the ten minutes between when I get home and her bedtime even more special.
It’s okay, I’m just being emotional about this. Can you not tell Howard?
Don’t you think it’d be healthier if you had your own apartment, grown man?
Stuart, you didn’t have to make dinner.
Meatloaf.
Stuart made it.
Sounds great.
Hmm, guess it should be me.
Of course, why?
No, I’m fine.
Fine.
Love you, too.
Okay, you won. Can I finish what I’m doing?
Something on your mind?
Nope, all good.
No, what is wrong with you?
Howard, I’m sorry if I’m being weird, but it has nothing to do with you.
No. I didn’t want to tell you, but I’m having a really tough time about going back to work.
It was?
I just don’t know what the right thing to do is. If I go back to work, I’m abandoning Halley. If I don’t go, I’m giving up everything I worked for. It’s like there’s no right choice.
I guess.
I’m not crazy about you calling our baby dumb.
I don’t like when you imitate me.
I’m on the day care’s website.
What if she likes the people who work there more than us?
When I go back to work, we’re gonna leave her with these people. We don’t know anything about them.
Well, sloth babies cling to their mothers’ bodies for almost a year. I’m going back to work after only four months, so I’ve learned I hate myself, I hate sloths, and I hate you for bringing me here.
It’s not just the sloth. Polar bears nurse their cubs for almost eight months. The orangutan mother builds her baby a new home every night. And what do I do? I choose my career over my child.
Yeah, eventually. She’s still not happy about taking a bottle, though.
No, I’ll be fine.
It would be nice to raise Halley to be a little more independent than you were.
Well, guess I’m ready to go.
You have everything she needs for day care?
Okay. Okay, sweetie, Mommy’s gonna go to work now, so you have fun today.
Stop, you’re gonna make me cry.
She’s not gonna see us all day, and she doesn’t even care.
I see a wall, floor, some Asian baby, there she is.
Thank you. Okay, I’m gonna try and get some work done.
Love you, too. Bye.
You realize they called when you took her.
See? This is the right thing for her. Let’s all just go to work.
Let me just say good-bye. Halley. Look at Mommy. Over here, honey. Say good-bye to Mommy. Look at me. Look at your mother. All right, we can go.
Yeah, they say the yeast in beer helps with milk production.
Ruin it for me and I’ll break this glass over your head.
Yeah, breastfeeding burns, like, 5,000 calories a day. Do not touch that phone.
So you wanted to learn something physical and you came to Howard Wolowitz?
Yes, I’m juggling my love for you and my embarrassment of you right now.
Is it I’m going to die alone?
Really? I have no trouble believing that at all.
We’re talking about the same Leonard, right?
I would never let Howard work with an ex.
I wouldn’t trust her. He’s thin and sexy like a Jewish greyhound.
And I’d like to think Howie wouldn’t take a job I was uncomfortable with.
Terrified.
Hey, I didn’t know you were home. Where you been?
Seriously, where were you?
Why?
Oh. What’d she say?
First of all, that’s not what she sounds like, she’s from South Carolina.
Okay, it’s not like I wanted to be a ventriloquist. I was in beauty pageants and I needed a talent besides spreading rumours that the other contestants were pregnant.
No. And the little lady has a name.
Tammy Jo St. Cloud.
Sorry, you’re not a dork. You’re a clown. Tammy Jo, don’t say that, you’ll make him feel bad. Look at him, what reason he got to feel good?
Don’t listen to her, she’s been in a box for, like, 25 years. Yeah, back when his haircut was fashionable.
Yeah, you guys did this all on your own.
So what happens next?
So you’re gonna be roommates with Bert?
Hey, that’s amazing.
You’re kidding. Why would they do that?
You doing okay?
Want me to put on some Neil Diamond? That always makes you feel better.
You might be forgetting another accomplishment of the past year.
Really? That’s the importance you put on us having a baby?
Really? He doesn’t put raisins or banana slices or anything in it?
You’re still gonna go, right?
Well, distance might be nice. The last time a big project ended for Howie, he wouldn’t stop following me around. He even went with me to get a mammogram.
No, he wanted to get one with me, like some kind of weird couple’s massage.
You’re excited about this opportunity, right?
You have to go.
I’m telling you, if you don’t go you’ll end up regretting it.
Oh, great.
Oh.
It’s too late for me. Save yourself.
Come here, let’s talk.
Just listen. I don’t know if you realize this, but whenever you’re between projects, you tend to get a little insecure.
A little clingy.
Oh, oh, oh, okay, stop. Stop. I love when you’re affectionate, but this is not coming from a good place.
I signed us up for ballroom dance class.
I made us have a baby.
Bring it in.
That’s nothing, Howie said she touched his hand.
No.
Should we call Amy?
I guess we could wait till we have more information about this girl.
Ugh. How can you think that? Why would you even put those words together?
Nowitzki. I googled her, she’s pretty cute.
Which he only did once.
We didn’t want you to worry.
Yeah, but you’re gonna be back in three months.
That’s ridiculous. As far as we know, all that happened is two scientists had lunch.
Yeah, there’s a million reasons a woman would shoot Raj down.
Fine, hundreds.
Can I just squeeze in here?
I threw my body at them, what else did you want me to do?
To do what? Shake a can of nickels at them?
Excuse me.
