It’s fantastic. Unbelievable.
Why?
Smooth.
Are there any chopsticks?
Also, the pretty girl left.
Actually, I was less the chatter than the chattee.
Well, she was upset at first, but, probably because her sister shot somebody. Then there was something about you and… then she hugged me.
intoxicating, isn’t it?
Oooh.
Blowing the gates. Control, shift, B! Oh, my God, so many goblins!
I’ve got him Leonard. Tonight I spice my meat with goblin blood!
Oooh, he’s got me.
He’s selling the Sword of Azeroth on ebay.
What’s the matter.
Like who?
You might be bound by them right now.
Also, Sheldon may be a robot.
You could power down.
Oh, God, Look at this buffet. I love America.
Of course, but it’s all Indian food. You can’t find a bagel in Mumbai to save your life. Schmear me.
Why don’t you just have Robert E. Lee charge the line with Shiva and Ganesh.
Excuse me, Ganesh is the remover of obstacles, and Shiva is the destroyer. When the smoke clears, Abraham Lincoln will be speaking Hindi and drinking mint juleps.
Oh dear.
She didn’t take my order.
Nevertheless, this will be reflected in her tip.
A little bird told us. Apparently you are a magnificent beast.
Okay, if no-one else will say it, I will. We really suck at paintball.
Make way for the fastest man alive. Oh no!
Or, we could walk right behind each other all night and look like one person going really fast.
What? Just because I’m Indian I can’t be a Norse God? No, no, no, Raj has to be an Indian God. That’s racism. I mean, look at Wolowitz, he’s not English, but he’s dressed like Peter Pan. Sheldon is neither sound nor light, but he’s obviously the Doppler Effect.
Really, because I saw Peter Pan, and you’re dressed exactly like Cathy Rigby. She was a little bigger than you, but it’s basically the same look, man.
Mmmm, by Odin’s beard, this is good Chex Mix.
Penny is wearing the worst Catwoman costume I have ever seen, and that includes Halle Berry’s.
What is your move?
Oh, if only I had his confidence. I have such difficulty speaking to women. Or around women. Or at times, even effeminate men.
Oh, that’s very impressive. And a little racist.
We can split it two, two and two.
Oh, sure, cut the foreigner in half, there’s a billion more where he came from.
What do you suppose she meant by that?
We could cut it into thirds.
That works.
Can we please make a decision, not only are there children starving in India, there’s an Indian starving right here.
Uurgh.
How about soup?
What’s happening to us? We’re falling apart.
I thought she was the whore of Omaha?
I can’t see him.
I’m all out.
There are no rules in hell!
All I’ve got is a needler, and I’m all out of ammo.
What?
And this is Leonard and Sheldon’s apartment.
May I present, live from New Delhi, Dr and Mrs V. M. Koothrappali.
Sorry papa.
And over here is Sheldon.
He lives with Leonard.
No, no, not like Haroun and Tanweer.
Papa, please don’t start.
Okay, that’s my life, that’s my friends, good to see you, say goodbye.
What is it papa.
The little fat girl that used to kick me in the samosas and call me untouchable.
Why did you do that?
But Papa, I’m not supposed…
Spring wedding?
If you don’t want to meddle, then why are you meddling.
Why are you telling me about my own culture?
Sorry, Mommy, Papa, but with all due respect I really can’t go through…
I don’t believe it.
Excuse me, hello? My parents are trying to marry me off to a total stranger, what am I going to do?
What?
Okay, I know what I’m going to do.
Find new friends.
I’ve got some feelers out. In the meantime, listen to this.
Can you believe how pushy she is?
If I don’t call her, I won’t hear the end of it from my parents.
How can I call her, you know I can’t talk to women.
Why?
What are you doing?
For what, making me sound like a Simpsons character?
I didn’t want to make this one.
Great, then we’ll get married, I won’t be able to talk to her, and we’ll spend the rest of our lives in total silence.
Where did my life go, Penny? One day I’m a carefree batchelor, and the next I’m married and driving a minivan to peewee cricket matches in suburban New Delhi.
Is there another Penny here? I had such plans. I had dreams. I was going to be the Indira Gandhi of particle astro-physics. But with a penis, of course.
Ever since I was a little boy my father wanted me to be a gynaecologist like him. How can I be a gynaecologist, I can barely look a woman in the eye. You know what, I’m not going to let my parents control my future any longer, it’s time for a showdown. Somebody give me a computer with a webcam.
And it’s about to tell my parents that I’m not riding an elephant down the aisle with Lalita Gupta.
Haven’t you been listening to me, I cannot talk to women.
You’re right. I… I am talking to you. Hello Penny, how are you?
Okay, now I just need to make sure I have a Lalita before I meet the grasshopper. It’s a sweet green miracle.
Overdo what? Happiness? Freedom? This warm glow inside of me that promises everything is going to be all hunky donkey?
Okay.
I can’t believe I’m sitting here next to little Lalita Gupta.
Little Lalita. That’s kind of fun to say. Little Lalita, Little Lalita, Little Lalita, you should try it.
You have lost so much weight! That must have been difficult for you because you were so, so fat! Do you remember?
Of course you do. Who could forget being that fat?
So you’re a dental student? Hmm, are you aware that dentists have an extremely high suicide rate? Not as high as, say, air traffic controllers, but then there are far more dentists than air traffic controllers, so in pure numbers you’re still winning.
Hey guys. This is Lalita Gupta, Lalita this is Leonard and Sheldon and Howard and Penny. Isn’t it great, she isn’t fat any more!
But you’re a dentist, he’s nuts.
Back off Sheldon.
If you do not stop hitting on my lady you will feel the full extent of my wrath.
You are my lady. Our parents said so. We are for all intents and purposes one hundred percent hooked up.
Oh, screw Princess Punchali.
But you’re not Princess Punchali.
What just happened?
Maybe you should keep your eye on the ball, Papa.
But he’s right, Papa, listen to him. You! You are the one who ruined everything!
Go ahead, tell my parents why they won’t have any grandchildren.
This has nothing to do with my sperm count.
Yes Mommy.
Can we please stop talking about my testicles? Sheldon, tell them what you did.
Sorry? That’s all you can say is sorry?
I’m not an alcoholic.
It was just this one time, Papa, I swear.
But Papa, please….
Please wait until I get into the hall.
Go for stereo.
I don’t want to be in a jar. I want my brain in an android body. Eight feet tall and ripped.
I suppose you could have your android penis circumcised. But that’s something your Rabbi would have to discuss with the manufacturers.
Hoo-hoo-hoo. The only thing missing from that insult was “yo mamma.”
Somebody got the whole thing on a cell phone and put it on youtube.
Why not?
Oh, too bad. I’ve always wanted to go to Long Beach.
Sounds fun.
Shotgun.
Well I’d like to point out, I voted for orang-utan, but you shouted me down. .
You did what you had to do.
Here we go, ten and a half hours of apey goodness.
Well if you leave now, you can be back before the gorillas rip the crap out of Charlton Heston.
How about Lasic?
Would you rather go back to the apartment and deal with Sheldon, or have a stranger carve out your corneas with a laser beam?
The living room appears to be empty.
No way, Jose.
The… the picture’s breaking up.
Go away.
Do you know what he did. He watched me work for ten minutes, and then started to design a simple piece of software that could replace me.
As it turns out, yes.
Well, what if something were to happen to this boy so he was no longer a threat to Sheldon?
We can’t send him back to North Korea. He knows how to get out.
She was sleeping with you?
It’s possible she may have misunderstood us.
Oh, yes. There was a very official email that was sent to everyone whose insurance files indicated they had daughters between the ages of 14 and 16.
Thank you.
We need a social catalyst.
Okay. How about that one.
Are you crying?
Okay, uh, how about her?
Okay, so not her either. How about her?
I can’t talk to her, you do it.
You know, if we were in India this would be simpler. Five minutes with her dad, twenty goats and a laptop and we’d be done.
Alright, why don’t we do it your way then? We’ll arrange for this girl to move in across the hall from Dennis so he can pathetically moon over her for months on end.
You started it, dude.
Unbelievable.
Forget the mission, how did that little yutz get a girl on his own?
Maybe we’re too smart. So smart it’s offputting.
Hey, look at that. It’s Dennis Kim.
You know, I kind of feel bad about what we did to him.
I’d be more interested in a scene depicting Spock’s conception.
How come on Star Trek everybody’s private parts are the same. No alien lady ever told Captain Kirk, hey, get your thing out of my nose.
Good story.
Okay. First order of physics bowl business. We need a truly kick-ass team name. Suggestions.
I like it.
Then we can be the Bengal Tigers.
Maybe so. But you can’t incinerate a Bengal Tiger with a magnifying glass.
He’s using psychological warfare. We must reply in kind. I say we wait until he looks at us, then laugh like, yes, you are a smart and strong competitor, but we are also smart and strong and we have a reasonable chance of defeating you.
Hee hee hee hee hee hee hee!
Hee hee hee hee hee hee hee!
You know who’s apparently very smart, is the girl who played TV’s Blossom. She got a PhD in neuroscience or something.
How about the girl from the Wonder Years?
Why? Because you slept together and when she was done with you she discarded you like last night’s chutney?
Yeah. Sack up, dude.
Hee hee hee hee hee hee hee hee.
Sheldon can suck on, the Casimir Effect.
Holy crap.
What did they give you?
Boy, Sophie could have used a time machine in that movie. Did you see it, it’s rough.
It’s only $800?
Fifteen seconds.
Ten, nine, eight…
Five.
Four.
Three.
Two.
One.
Congratulations, you are the proud owner of a miniature time machine.
A time share time machine? I’m in. Sheldon?
Did the listing actually say miniature?
Cocktain shrimp are $12.50.
Sheldon?
If my fingers ever work again, I’ve got a job for the middle one.
In a minute. Howard stepped outside to throw up.
Oh yeah. The guy who lives next to me is always like, I have a Jacuzzi on my balcony, I have a Jacuzzi on my balcony. But wait until I tell him, I’ve got a time machine on my balcony. Stuff that in your speedos, Jacuzzi Bob!
He’s got a point.
I still want it on my balcony. I say we move it on a bi-monthly basis.
Twice a month.
Okay, every other month.
Also, since the time machine doesn’t move in space, you’ll end up in 1876 Pasadena.
Mrs Bell was deaf, she’s not even going to hear you knock.
Ooh, how far into the future?
My turn.
My turn!
Why?
I’ll give you a hundred dollars, which will make me half owner, and we’ll put it on my balcony.
Dude, everyone knows a time machine loses half its value the minute you drive it off the lot.
Three hundred, and I’ll throw in my original 1979 Mattel Millenium Falcon with real light speed sound effects.
More importantly, you’ve a Darth Vader voice changer?
Oh, I call dibs on the Golden Age Flash.
Too bad, I called dibs.
I can and I did, look up dibs on Wikipedia.
Why Larry? Did Larry call dibs?
I’ll match it, plus a thousand rupees.
None of your business. Take it or leave it.
Okay, Leonard, put down the box, let’s talk.
Psh, what a bunch of crybabies. No guts, no glory man.
We are testing a new medication for social anxiety, panic attacks, agoraphobia and obsessive compulsive disorder. Why would they be looking for test subjects here?
Yes, I’m very hopeful. Hello Missy. They mentioned there may be side effects.
So, Missy. Have you ever met a man from the exotic subcontinent of India?
Ah yes, Dr Patel, good man.
A hog? You have a two cylinder scooter with a basket on the front.
Have you ever heard of the Kama Sutra?
The Indian sex book. In other words if you wonder wonder who wrote the book of love, it was us.
Missy, do you enjoy pajamas?
We Indians invented them. You’re welcome.
Why should I back off, you back off dude.
Hey, look at me, I don’t have a foreskin.
I am Shiva the destroyer, I will have the woman!
I’m not happy, it’s the medication, I can’t stop smiling.
Excuse me, but I think you’re missing a big opportunity here.
Everybody knows genetic diversity produces the strongest offspring. Why not put a little mocha in the family latte.
She’s not hiding. She needed privacy to call her grandmother who’s apparently very sick. Oh, and then I believe she has to wash her hair.
Don’t start with me dude.
Thank you. I apprec…. apprec…. appreeee…. oh-oh.
Keebler Elf? I’ve got your Keebler Elf right here. Okay, it’s a stalemate.
Dude! Everybody left an hour ago! Surprise!
Okay Leonard, here I am at your birthday party, I don’t know where you are dude, but it’s really kick-ass. Everyone is very very drunk, and uh… Oh look, there’s a girl taking her shirt off.
Oh sweet Krishna, shake it, that-a rupee maker.
What else? Sell it on ebay as slightly used.
Sure. Tell us again how you screwed up and got Penny back together with her old boyfriend.
Incredible. You managed to screw up the screw-up.
He’s coming. Screen saver.
Dude, she said she wants to slow things down.
You being the fish.
They also don’t care for it if you stare at them and hyperventilate. Sadly, that’s my home run swing.
Nice close up, by the way.
And the worst sign of all is, you’re here and not there.
He was a lot more fun when he had no hope.
We just got back from that exhibit of those plasticised human cadavers.
What did you do? Did you change the contrast or brightness settings on the television?
Did you take a band aid off in front of him?
Adjust the thermostat, cook with cilantro, pronounce the T in often?
Well, we all knew this day was coming.
Well you can’t stay with me, I have a teeny tiny apartment.
I hate trains.
Yes I do, come on. See you later Leonard.
Sixty years. Used to be a watch factory.
What?
Not until now.
Well, if you’re not comfortable staying here, Sheldon…
Terrific.
Yes, isn’t she an amazing actress.
How dare you. Aishwarya Rai is a Goddess. By comparison Madhuri Dixit is a leprous prostitute.
Tag. You’re it.
By moving on, do you mean, she’s going out with other men and you spent the afternoon making fifteenth century soap with Wolowitz?
Who were you respecting then?
Doesn’t count.
What happens in costume at Comic-con, stays at Comic-con.
N-n-n-nothing happened to me.
H-h-h-how did we get on me, we were mocking Leonard for not moving on. Dude, you have totally not moved on.
What about Leslie Winkle.
Why?
I think she’s smoking hot.
Technically it would only be rebound if he and Penny had actually engaged in physical intimacy.
I bought him dinner and we kissed once, that was it. And he told me his name was Kimberley!
Oh, okay, how about this. You can go dressed as a Star Trek science officer exploring a planet similar to Earth in the 1500s.
Sure.
Okay, we’re all set.
It’s like some kind of weird comic book crossover.
I always thought Peppermint Patty was a lesbian?
Hey guys.
Ah, yes, online gaming addiction. There’s nothing worse than having that multi-player monkey on your back.
She’s so considerate.
Remember that little planetary object I spotted beyond the Kuiper belt?
Or as I called it, Planet Bollywood. Anyway, because of my discovery, People magazine is naming me one of their thirty under-30 to watch.
Thirty visionaries under thirty years of age to watch as they challenge the preconceptions of their fields.
It’s pretty cool, they’ve got me in with a guy who’s doing something about hunger in Indonesia, and a psychotherapist who’s using dolphins to rehabilitate prisoners, and Ellen Page, star of the charming independent film Juno.
Sorry, it’s not part of my heartwarming and personal narrative, in which a humble boy from New Delhi overcame poverty and prejudice and journeyed to America to reach for the stars.
It’s a lease.
Peer review? It’s People magazine. People picked me.
The people from People.
Boy, I bet Ellen Pages friends aren’t giving her this kind of crap.
Hey guys, what’s up?
It’s very nice of you, I would like that.
Dr Gablehouser.
Actually, 2008 NQ sub 17 is a planetary body.
Really, you don’t have to go to any trouble.
I’d rather have Fishbine’s, it’s bigger.
I didn’t even know there was a President’s dining room.
Okay, big buddy. See you tonight guys.
So anyway, after a fantastic lunch I was whisked off to the People magazine photo shoot… have any of you boys ever been to a photo shoot?
It’s fantastic, apparently the camera loves me and I it. They shot me in front of a starry background where I posed like this. They’re going to digitally add a supernova, they say it’s the perfect metaphor for my incandescent talent.
Excuse me. Oh, it’s my assistant Trevor. Go for Koothrappali. Uh-huh.
Okay, just put it on my calendar but start thinking of a reason why I can’t go, alrighty? Koothrappali out. God bless that boy, I don’t know what I’d do without him.
Yes, but I’m finding that having a lackey suits me.
Oh, I’m sorry, is that politically incorrect? In India we just call them untouchables.
Speaking of untouchables, I’ve got great news for you guys. People magazine is having a reception this Saturday, and I managed to get you invited.
Oh, you’re welcome. Of course, I couldn’t get you into the VIP section, because, you know, that’s for VIPs, and you guys are just, you know, Ps.
Okay, so, Saturday night, can I count on my posse?
Oh, okay, Leonard?
Sheldon?
Well, there’s a reception for my magazine article on Saturday.
Would you like to go with me?
Really? Cool.
Look at that. I got a date with Penny. I can’t believe it took you a whole year.
Hey, buddy. I’m going to be in people magazine.
I know, I am resplendent like the noonday sun, am I not?
It was in the limo. They sent a limo. I have a limo. I just love saying limo. Here, sip on this while you’re getting ready.
That’s what you’re wearing.
Nothing, I was just hoping for something a little more, you know, redonkulous.
Okey dokey, let’s roll. Alright, it’s time to raise the roof. Oo-ooh, oo-ooh.
Dude.
Hey, Leonard, did you see my limo downstairs.
It’s bigger than the house my grandfather grew up in.
It has more food too.
Welcome to the Raj Mahal.
No, wait, the evening’s not over.
No, it’s time to put on some R. Kelly and suck face.
Just making conversation. Mummy, daddy, I want you to meet my new squeeze, Penny.
Here you go, cute huh?
What right do you have to pick who I can have children with?
Now you listen to me, I am no longer a child, and I will not be spoken to like one. Now if you’d excuse me, I have to go throw up.
Why did Howard leave you in the middle of the road anyway?
Over what?
I’m taking you home.
I have a better idea.
I like comic books.
Good morning. Is there some new kind of casual Friday I don’t know about?
But you finished your experiment a week ago.
I love this time of the year. The leaves are turning, there’s a bracing chill in the air.
Isn’t there a university policy against dating graduate students?
Damn, there’s always a catch.
Brisket party! B-to-the-R-to-the-I-S-K… To-the-E-to-the-T… Ooh…
You might want to slow down a bit, buddy.
Hold on a second. Kreplach?
That isn’t Klingon, it’s Yiddish for meat-filled dumpling.
Judge’s ruling?
Not yet, but her underwater photo shoot was an embarrassment.
There’s the house, freeze frame, freeze frame.
Marking the star positions and physical landmarks so we can find the house of the supermodels.
Or possibly Durham, North Carolina.
Party with the pretty girls, dude!
And a large number of people will believe it never happened.
Are you sure?
Oh, pause it. That’s it. Confirmed. We now have the address of the top model house.
What do we do now?
I don’t want to watch Saturn 3. Deep Space Nine is better.
Simple subtraction will tell you it’s six better.
I’ll tell you what, how about we go rock-paper-scissors?
What?
Okay, I think I got it.
What are negs?
I saw what you did there.
Yeah, Star Trek V, worse than I.
Are you joking? Star Trek V is the standard against which all badness is measured.
Star Trek V!
I have three words for you. Wrath of Khan.
Actually, I was just checking my e-mail. But, uh, no, the Rover is not responding.
You could try calling Triple-A, but based on NASA’s latest timetable, they won’t get there for 35 years.
Oh, snap.
What’s Plan B?
Okay, who gets the extra dumpling?
Hey.
You know, screw it, I’m just gonna eat the dumpling.
You told me you were going to have the talk with him.
During which she defected to North Korea.
For which she awarded him the nickname “speed of light Leonard.”
Which would have been two and a half if they ordered the souffle when they sat down.
Well, if you want to guarantee his appeal to Stephanie, your best bet would be to kill all the other men on the planet.
Yeah.
Can I see your stitches?
Answering the question once and for all why Wolowitz bailed out of medical school.
Too bad, ’cause she was checking you out before.
Of course not. Look at her.
Hey.
It’s got a big bird on it, dude.
You’re lucky. With me, it’s usually the other way around.
It’s true, but on the other hand you are wearing a bird sweater.
Or it turned into mustard Kryptonite, the only way to destroy a rogue Kryptonian hotdog threatening Earth.
Booya.
“Kandorian dry cl…” I give up, you can’t have a rational argument with this man.
Then how?
I didn’t get a good look. Can I go again?
In more ways than one. He’s a very handsome man.
Oh, yeah, like you have a shot with Zac Ephron.
Trailing badly, Wolowitz needs a strike if he has any hopes of catching up with Sheldon Cooper, who is dominating in the ninth frame with a career-best 68.
Whoa. Humongous man crush, dude.
Sheldon, if you don’t like this stuff, let’s just go next door and build her a bear.
She knows you. She’s tense. We all are. Buy a basket!
As with my father, I both love and fear it.
Okay. What shall be first to taste the wrath of Monte?
Okay. Ooh, perhaps today is the day we finally find out what’s inside the Magic Eight Ball.
Man, call spoiler alert before you say things like that.
How about “Die, toaster, die”?
What’s going on?
I’m not surprised. Despite his hard and crusty shell, Howard is a very sensitive man. Do you know he writes poetry? Mostly about men from Nantucket and hermits named Dave, but he does it with real sensitivity.
Oh, snap.
What difference does it make? Fat is fat.
He’s depressed because he’s pathetic and creepy and he can’t get girls.
I’m curious, what part of America is that accent from?
I can’t watch anymore.
Sheldon, did we all not just watch the same video? Kripke’s robot just had angry sex with a mid-sized automobile.
Excuse me, but how are we going to make any modifications without Wolowitz? Have you heard from Penny yet?
But, Sheldon, we don’t have a chance. The only improvement you were able to make on the robot was to put fresh batteries in the remote.
That’s not overconfidence, that’s observation.
Way to bust out the Jedi mind tricks, dude.
Come on, Sheldon, you got this.
Go, Monte! Go Monte!
No one’s arguing with you, dude.
Mmm, gentlemen, I put it to you, the worst tapioca pudding is better than the best pudding of any other flavour.
Really? I once saw him shopping at Ralph’s. He was buying tequila.
Feel better now?
Don’t feel bad Leonard, negative results are still results.
Yeah, he’s a ginormous knob.
Fo’ shizzle.
I’m curious. In the “How Well Do You Know Sheldon” section, what do you put for his favourite amino acid?
Damn it. I had Lysine and changed it.
Stu the cockatoo?
He almost made it to the top this time.
Maybe you could run some computer simulations.
What about the multiplex here? The seats are terrific.
We could eat after the movie.
Hang on, hang on. There’s a 7-Eleven here. We smuggle Slurpies, which are essentially Icees, in under our coats, after having a pleasant meal either here, here or here.
That’s how we missed it.
Yep, I don’t see any way around it.
Later, dude.
Leviticus 11:3: “Only that which parteth the hoof and cheweth the cud among the beasts shall ye eat.”
We’re on a quest through the Valley of Fire to acquire the sacred crown.
Oh, cool, I got a sword.
Here.
Plus, no one stole their pants.
I should’ve peed before we left.
A successful quest. Now let’s go find a gas station with a clean bathroom.
If anybody cares, I still have to pee.
Yeah, you’re like the Jar Jar Binks of the Hofstadter family.
Nope, I think mocking you is more fun.
Well, then why didn’t you say that to her?
It’s not always your responsibility. I swear, this is the same thing you did at the comic book store last week.
I didn’t bring it up. You did.
You always say that, but we never do.
God, I love the smell of paintballs in the morning.
Well, that’s it then, we’re doomed.
We need a plan. How about Operation Hammer of the Gods?
We hide behind the Dumpsters in the parking lot and ambush people when they come to pee.
Did you guys see the new budget memo that went out this morning?
What was all that about?
You know what I’m thinking? I’m thinking Howard wasn’t making a back-scratching metaphor. I’m thinking there was some actual scratching involved.
And plus, you got a rapid prototyper. That’s an expensive piece of equipment, dude.
Sheldon, you have two choices. Either you let him put a bigger hard drive in the TiVo, or you delete stuff before we go out of town.
Whatever it is, I’m guessing we’re doing it wrong.
What’s wrong with Jiffy Lubes?
It’s not so bad, really. At least these trains have modern plumbing. In India, you squat over a hole in the train and expose your naked buttocks to the chilly air of Rajasthan.
Holy crap! Look!
Oh, please.When it comes to Terminators, you’ve got a better shot of scoring with Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Hang on a sec. Why do you get first crack at her?
No, you didn’t. I did.
You fail to take into account that even mute, I am foreign and exotic, while you, on the other hand, are frail and pasty.
Sheldon, is there a place on this train to get alcohol?
Yeah-yeah, which way?
Really? I just made it up. Have you seen Slumdog Millionaire?
It’s loosely based on my life.
And that bright little star peeking her head out early today, that’s Venus.
Come on. When you were on TV in Firefly, you were actually in space.
You mean one of the hopeless geeks? No. Those are crazy people. Howard, be a dear and get me another one of these. Now, him, he’s one of those geeks.
Actually, in India, the names of constellations are different. Where you have the Big Dipper, we have the Big Curry Pot.
You got me. Now what are you going to do with me?
Yes?
What am I looking at?
Non-alcoholic bee-ee-eeuh
Knight to queen’s bishop-five.
Let’s find out. Leonard, ready?
Go.
What’s the matter?
You know, if I wanted to spend my Saturday nights doing this, I could have stayed in India.
We only had four servants. And two of them were children.
We have 128 assorted Penny Blossoms ready to ship.
You get to choose between a mountain bike or a PS3.
I like green lantern, I’m just saying it’s pretty lame that He can be defeated by the colour yellow.
Great, so I can take them both out with a number-two pencil?
I could go for some goat.
We went to the comic book store last night.
So what are we going to do tonight?
The Wolowitz Coefficient?
Well, what are we waiting for? Let’s bounce, bitches.
Here we go. Lock up your daughters! We’re going to hit it and quit it.
Also a good plan.
You heard that, Ladies’ Night ladies? We’re eventually coming for you!
That’s right. She’s with us. Guys like that are so pathetic.
Guys, have you seen Stuart all up in Penny’s business over there?
May I have a grasshopper with a little umbrella, please?
Why?
Fine. I’ll have a chocolate martini.
Come on, you know I can’t talk to women unless I’m lit up like the Hindu festival of Diwali.
Gotcha. I’ll have a Brandy Alexander.
Barkeep! Alexander me.
Oh, okay, okay, my turn. Are you in the six Star Wars movies?
Interesting. Are you a Droid?
Do you kind of look like a shiny Sheldon?
C3PO.
Are you Spock?
Aren’t you leaving for your booty call?
What happened with Leslie, why did she dump you?
Is it me, or was that Sheldon’s way of saying Vegas baby!
Me? No. I just got Vegas baby from Vince Vaughn in Swingers. .
What do you say, Howard?
What are you going to tell your mother?
Look at this, mouthwash, lotion, body wash, shampoo and conditioner together in one tiny bottle. I love Las Vegas.
But she did dump you.
Oh, we should have a plan in case one of us gets lucky.
Sounds like a plan.
I’m telling you, Leonard, video slot machines, free drinks brought to us by a bosomy barmaid and all you can eat shrimp for $3.95. Disneyland can suck it. This is the real happiest place on earth.
Rajesh Ramayan Koothrappali.
Hello, Michaela.
Why, yes, I love to party. Party is my middle name. Or it would be, if it weren’t Ramayan.
Not now, Leonard, Michaela’s inviting me to a party. You better call the moon and you make sure that they have a bed for you.
Excuse me, I’ll be right back. Don’t go anywhere. Don’t move. Just stay the beautiful unspoiled American flower that you are. What’s wrong with you dude, that woman was all up in my jammy.
What? No. ..
Maybe I can save her.
It was lovely meeting you, best of luck in your future endeavours.
Oh, I miss her already.
Why don’t we take him to see the Blue Man Group?
USA Today calls them exuberant fun for the whole family.
It’s too bad he wasn’t here for that hooker. She’s exactly his type. A hooker. You know, I bet if we hired her, that would cheer him up.
Hello again.
If you’re really a prostitute.
With sex.
How can she when you beat around the bush. She’s from the mean streets where they shoot from the hip and keep it real.
Prostitute.
Uh, actually, if it’s not too much to ask, could we have the Jewish girlfriend experience.
A little baby.
A prostitute, yes.
You’re paying? Have you been selling your sperm again?
Oh, get over yourself, it’s a high-tech toilet.
He’s right. This is an important achievement, for two reasons. Number one, and, of course, number two.
Sure you remember. You went to the bar and made a fool of yourself trying to pick up strange women.
Interesting. Penny’s current suitor asking advice from her former suitor.
He can’t figure out how to fix it.
I’m trying, but you have to admit this is pretty damn funny.
Don’t you mean the Wolowitz Zero-Gravity Human Waste Distribution System?
Yeah.
You mean so it doesn’t hit the fan?
Be afraid of Penny, nice, very crafty.
Of course you feel terrible. You completely screwed up your karma, dude.
It’s not superstition. It’s practically Newtonian. For every action, there’s an equal and opposite reaction. Leonard pretends to be a friend and acts like a two-faced bitch, therefore, he is reborn as a banana slug. It’s actually a very elegant system, you know, what goes around comes around.
Okay, look. Instead of trying to reinforce this structure here, what if we just ran another line, bypass it entirely?
What if we reposition the collection tank?
If you really want to clean up your karma, go get my freakin’ latte.
Howard, wait. Why don’t you use this instead of the PVC to keep the transverse filter assembly in place?
That what that’s for? In India, the lid just touches the cheese. Of course, we also have rampant poverty and periodic outbreaks of cholera, so a little cardboard in our cheese is no biggie.
Me, too.
Wow, that’s heavy.
What do you think the problem is?
We could play outside.
Our dreams are very small, aren’t they?
Ooh, I don’t like where this is going.
Is this just so we won’t touch your stuff while you’re away?
But if we were part of the team that confirmed string theory, we could drink for free in any bar in any college town with a university that has a strong science program.
You still might get on a magazine.
Well, I’m a Hindu. My religion teaches that if we suffer in this life we are rewarded in the next. Three months at the North Pole with Sheldon and I’m reborn as a well-hung billionaire with wings!
Me, too.
Where are your tools?
I think I swallowed some paint!
Me either.
If you were standing behind me nagging, I might.
No, it’s not. Howard, tell them.
What are you working on?
He’s right.
So, who’s up for a movie?
I say double feature.
It was like a snowy nightmare from which there was no awakening.
Yeah, it was first come, first served.
Thanks.
We have to tell him.
It’s not about that.
For me, it was a bonding moment.
I thought we were going to be gentle with him.
He just went colon, capital O.
It was the only way to keep you from being such a huge Dickensian. You see that? I added the ensian.
I like the new look.
I call it the Mario and Luigi, but whatever. Hey, how’s Sheldon doing?
I feel bad for the guy.
Well, we’ll always have the night the heat went out.
Boy, you cannot catch a break, can you?
I’m sorry, this does not look like Texas. Where’s the tumbleweeds? Where’s the saloons?
Yeah, like in the movies I saw growing up in India. You know, uh, Four for Texas, Yellow Rose of Texas.
I was really hoping to see a cattle drive.
To what? Toy Story?
Give it up, dude, you’re arguing with a crazy person.
Yeah, but since you and Penny finally hooked up, we thought you two would be having bouncy naked yum-yum night.
Yeah, take advantage of that window of opportunity before it slams shut on your little dinky.
Okay, who had Leonard gets a floppy disk?
Just fine? Oh, dude, the fourth Harry Potter movie was just fine.
Oh, yeah.
Disappointed? Let down?
That’s because in your dreams you’re a horse from the waist down.
Yeah, you…
Whatever, dude. The point is, Leonard’s got one and you don’t.
What’s that?
How do you know what the exact temperature of the room is?
Oh, dude, you are never getting a shiksa goddess.
Chickens can’t climb trees
Great. Now how are you going to settle it, hmm? There is no way to determine the species of the cricket without examining it.
I wonder what the non-pathetic people are doing tonight.
Hallway.
My stomach. Indian food doesn’t agree with me. Ironic, isn’t it?
Ooh, big talk from a man who was once treed by a chicken.
Be careful.
Ugh, Toby, what did you do in a past life to be so disgusting now?
What would you name him?
Oh, I really don’t care anymore
What happened?
Holy crap. It’s like Silence of the Lambs down here. Don’t do that!
Yeah, well, I don’t like bugs, okay? They freak me out.
Ask rhetorical questions that make people uncomfortable?
I’m from New Delhi. Maybe you should find another entomologist.
Enjoy Oxnard. I’m sure your daughter’s looking forward to having you.
I think we’re fitting in quite nicely.
Oh, what’s so gothic about vodka and cranberry juice?
No, I’m behind on my wiki-reading I’m kind of on a John Grisham kick right now.
Well, I finished reading The Pelican Brief and loved it so much, I dived right into The Client. He was a lawyer himself so his novels are accurate as well as entertaining.
Great. Lost boys, children of the night. Got it. Can you pass the Chex mix, please. Thank you. We are lost boys.
Light beers? Well, Wiki-how about that?
Raj.
Yes, very nice.
Do either of you ladies enjoy the novels of John Grisham?
Goth food.
Uh… blackened salmon?
Oh, we’re scientists.
Well, I am an astrophysicist and a lot of that takes place at night. When there are vampires and miscellaneous undead out and about.
That sounds really cool.
So what do you gals do?
Yeah, I’ve been there as well. I like your tee-shirts with the little pocket.
Sure, we like fun.
Dark and fun.
In my fanny pack.
Are you happy now?
Are you seriously going to deface your body just for the possibility you could have cheap sex with a strange girl you met in a bar?
What is your mother going to say?
With my luck, hepatitis
We’re both frauds.
But I was summing up.
Very, very smart guys.
When we tell this story, let’s end it differently.
I like it, I like it. Did they smell good despite their gothlike nature?
Engaging my olfactory sense helps make it real for me.
Oh, they did. Like jasmine and honeysuckle.
And then they held hands and did a sexy, demonic hokey-pokey for us.
I’m sorry. Go on.
But we don’t have tattoos. What if someone asks to see our tattoos?
Oh, we are bad boys, aren’t we?
But we just got tattoos. Wouldn’t we be concerned about bacterial infection?
Wow. What a great night.
Yeah, maybe we’ll get lucky with some sexy cowgirls.
I wonder how they smell.
Sorry. I lost my cool.
Okay, here’s the deal, six months ago, my research testing the predicted composition of trans-Neptunian objects ran into a dead end.
So, my visa’s only good as long as I’m employed at the university, and when they find out I’ve got squat, they’re going to cut me off. By the way, when I say squat, I mean diddly-squat. I wish I had squat.
You know, checking e-mail, updating my facebook status, messing up wikipedia entries. Hey, did you know Netflix lets you stream movies on your computer now?
I don’t want to go back to India. It’s hot and loud, and there’s so many people. You have no idea, they’re everywhere.
Oh, beef, I’m going to miss you so much. Do you know, at the Mumbai McDonald’s, you can’t get a Big Mac? All you can get is a Chicken Maharaja Mac. And the special sauce, curry, which, in India,
Yeah let me start practicing for it. Do you want fries with that Maharaja Mac?”
Hello Sheldon.
I’m sad.
What are you eating?
Oh, beefaroni. I think I’ll miss you most of all.
We believe cows are gods.
Do not tell me about my own culture, Sheldon! In the mood I’m in, I’ll take you out, I swear to cow!
Me, too. I’m just, I’m a little on edge.
Thank you.
You, you’re kidding. That’s fantastic!
I’m on it.
No, no, it’s a very promising area. In a perfect world I’d spend several more years on it. But I just couldn’t pass up the opportunity to work with you on your tremendously exciting and not yet conclusively disproved hypothesis.
It’s a little early, isn’t it?
That’s very good. Jolly amusing, but if you don’t mind, I’ll hold off until sunset on titan.
Thank you, sir.
Well, I ran a simulation that allowed me to correct for the observational efficiency.
Thank you. Would you like to hear more about it in my hot tub? So, when do I start?
You know, he’s British, I’m Indian, ever since Gandhi they haven’t liked us very much.
That’s okay. A complaint has been filed. So, that’s it. That was my last hope. I’m going to be deported, sent home in disgrace, exposed to the sardonic barbs of my cousin Sanjay. Or, as you may know him, Dave from AT&T customer service.
Will you come visit me in India?
Halfway is 600 miles off the coast of Japan.
No.
You want me to work with you?
Okay, uh, please don’t take this the wrong way, but I’d rather swim buck-naked across the Ganges with a paper cut on my nipple and die a slow, agonizing death from a viral infection than work with you.
Shall I wait?
I’ve reconsidered your offer to let me work with you.
Yes, for you. I do, however, have a few conditions. First, at all times, I am to be treated as a colleague and an equal. Second, my contributions shall be noted in all published material. And third, you are never allowed to lecture me on Hinduism or my Indian culture.
Thank you.
Then you leave me no choice. I accept the job.
Wha… You’re kidding!
All right.
Come on, dude, we’ve been friends for years.
Sheldon, for God’s sakes, don’t make me beg.
Ooh, dark matter. We better bring a flashlight. I was making a joke.
Sorry, go ahead and make your joke.
All right, let’s buckle down and work.
Sheldon.
I need an aspirin.
Thank you.
Yes.
No, no, no, no! That rate is much too low for what we’d expect from this collision. Do you understand that we’re talking about dark matter colliding in outer space?
I’m the astrophysicist. Astro means space.
Okay, well, let me just tell you, if we were having this argument in my native language, I’d be kicking your butt.
Okay, you got me there, but you’re wrong about this!
My god, you think that every thought that comes out of your head is pure gold. Well, let me tell you something. Some of those thoughts are pure caca.
It means doo-doo.
Aha! So I am working with you.
Ah, well, in this context…
Okay. Here’s where we derive the mass of the dark matter particle.
Let me finish.
I’m not defacing it, I’m fixing it.
No.
Come and get it.
You are not my superior.
Oh, yeah? Can you do this? Nice working with you. I’m sorry, for you.
I’m busy.
What do you want, Sheldon?
So you were wrong.
That’s the only logical inference.
For you or with you?
All right, but I have some conditions.
I’ll take the job. See you Monday.
How did you get here?
So walk home.
All right.
Nobody can.
Hey, how come I wasn’t part of this deal?
Oh, so that’s how it works? I have a teeny bladder and now I don’t get a hot girlfriend?
Damn.
It’s true. I’ve seen him at the beach, he’s like a human chicken wing.
Hey, Sheldon, guess what I heard today?
Why don’t I just tell you what I heard today.
Saturday night at the comic book store, they’re having a Mystic Warlords of Ka-ah tournament. First prize is five hundred dollars. If we team up, we’d be unstoppable.
What about the money?
But this is other money.
Half of it will be mine.
Leonard, help.
Hey, Stuart, is the Wil Wheaton signed up for the mystic warlords tournament THE Wil Wheaton from Star Trek?
Oh, what a coincidence. Maybe you can discuss that with him while you’re playing in the tournament. Sign here.
Ooh, it’ll be like a reunion then. Sign here.
Okay, great, you can tell him you hate him. Sign here.
Okay, I get it, he’s a bad guy. Sign here.
No doubt, sign here.
Sheldon, it’s your play. Sheldon.
Sorry, boys. Say hi to your mother when she picks you up. Or I could just tell her later tonight! We pwned them, dude! Up top!
You know you keep quoting Wrath of Khan, but he was in next generation. It’s a totally different set of characters.
Well, if Wil Wheaton and Stuart win their match and we beat lonely Larry and Captain Sweatpants in the next round, we’ll face off for the championship.
Dude, you have to stop talking like that. It’s really lame.
Lava serpent.
Problem, Wil Wheaton?
Okay, great, everybody loves their grandmas! Now, come on, Sheldon, finish him off!
What are you waiting for? Kill Wil Wheaton! From hell’s heart, stab at him!
Sure you can. Do it! Do it!
No! Not enchanted bunny!
Kites ho!
Leonard just realized that Penny’s been hiding him from her friends because he’s a tiny, little man who flies kites.
Oh, they think we’re flanking, they’re playing right into our hands. On the count of three, we execute the flying scissor. One, two…
See what?
No, she didn’t.
Come on, scissors, scissors!
Wait, what are you doing? I can’t scissors by myself! Howard! Come back!
Son of a bitch.
You’re a sucky friend, you know that? A sucky, sucky friend.
If she gave you any look at l. It was a you suck look.
Oh, please, you weigh 80 pounds. You don’t have a hammy.
You always do this, you know? You ditch me for a woman you don’t have a shot with.
With a woman you were chasing through a park? That’s not a shot, that’s a felony. What’s worse, it cost me my prized Patang fighting kite. Sheldon, I don’t suppose there’s any chance you could give me my kite back?
Really? The only thing I’ve learned in the last two hours is that American men love drinking beer, pee too often and have trouble getting erections.
I’m just saying, maybe if you people cut back on the beer, you could get out of the bathroom and satisfy your women without pharmaceutical help.
I’m sorry, are you under the impression that we’re still friends?
It’s not just the kite thing. Every time we go some place, you think you can just dump me whenever someone prettier comes along, even though you don’t have a shot with them.
Fine. Paint green flames on your little scooter with her.
It’s open.
What do you want?
The kite you made me lose was an authentic Patang, an Indian fighting kite that my brother sent to me from New Delhi. It took me a day to put together and two days to paint. This is Hello Kitty.
Wow, you just don’t get it, do you? Buying me something pretty isn’t going to make our problem just go away.
You’ve been a sucky friend, a sucky, sucky friend.
And you do it all the time. Last week in the mall at Radio Shack, we were looking for a phone with giant numbers for your mother, and I suddenly realize you’re not even there.
And where were you?
You’re impossible.
Excuse me, I have selective mutism, a recognized medical disorder. You’re just a douche.
No, I’m mad at you. I hate myself, but I’m mad at you.
I don’t know.
I… I do enjoy the La Brea Tar Pits.
Oh, why can’t I stay mad at you?
I really like my saber-toothed cat. Thank you.
I’d like that. This is turning out to be a perfect Saturday.
Fine. Go ahead.
If you want to chase after her, chase after her.
Don’t put yourself down. You’re a very attractive man.
Yeah. Absolutely. It wouldn’t kill you to take a Pilates class with me now and then, but you have a certain wiry appeal.
Actually, in this case, I think she was.
Yeah.
What a douche.
Oh, dude, I wish you had said something before I pounded that last Red Bull.
Well, that was rather unpleasant.
Well, excuse me, I don’t think Penny’s out of line at all. You don’t own her. It’s like my girl, Beyonce says, if you like it, you shoulda put a ring on it.”
You mean like when a guy’s upset because his friend agreed to take a cooking class with him and then doesn’t show up because he’s doing a juice fast with his mother?
Really! Did you miss all the subtle indicators, like me saying, Howard, I am upset.
Maybe it means something different in this country. Back in India, it means you’re upset with a guy named Howard!
Sorry doesn’t make up for the fact that I had to make chicken and rice with this vegan guy. Do you know what vegan chicken and rice is? Rice!
Oh, my God, you are such a mama’s boy.
You brought your mother into this!
Oh, sure, you can tell when Sheldon’s upset.
Stop knocking! It’s open! Please tell my parents that our dark matter research is at a critical juncture, and I can’t come home for my cousin Sanjay’s wedding.
I didn’t ask you to set me up with Lakshmi.
I don’t care! And why don’t you think I can find a woman for myself?
Oh, that is completely below the belt. Sheldon, tell my parents that Howard and I are just friends. Sheldon? Howard and I are just friends! Fine. I’ll come home for Sanjay’s wedding.
Okay, our position is 34.48 degrees north, 118.31 west. That means the azimuth should be 168.22 degrees relative to magnetic north with an elevation of 49.93.
We did it. We have the west coast feed of HBO.
Big deal. Every time I watch that show it’s old women putting condoms on cucumbers.
Not a great movie, but look at that beautiful desert.
Yes, it’s not the same without him.
Yeah, that would have been great. You and Penny having sex in the tent while I sit out here and watch Howard hump a cactus.
Wow. Wonderful. How old are they?
Oh, menopause, nature’s birth control.
Yeah, me, too.
So, what are we waiting for?
Good idea. They’ll be refreshed.
Yeah, thank you. Mmmm.
Yeah, very tasty. Well, so tell me more about these teachers.
Huh. Mmm. Good cookies.
That’s beautiful, dude. You should… You should write that down before someone steals it.
The meteors don’t get here, the earth is moving into their path.
Okay, how’s that?
It’s your American accent. Everything you say sounds stupid. Stars are pretty, aren’t they?
If I could speak the language of rabbits, they would be amazed, and I would be their king.
I would be kind to my rabbit subjects. At first.
One day, I hold a great ball for the President of France, but the rabbits, they hate me and don’t come. I am embarrassed, so I eat all the lettuce in the world and make them watch.
Right! That was so good! Sweety and meaty at the same time.
I know they’re poison, but they look like big, yummy otter pops.
Oh, I’m so hungry!
He’s right.
Me, too. But what?
…And the next morning when he woke up, he rolled over and realized… duh-duh-duh! …she was his cousin.
Who cares? You slept with your cousin.
Actually, I’ve never had three dates with the same woman.
I was on the radio once. I called in to Fever 104 FM New Delhi and was the fourth person to say the phrase that pays, “Fever 104, आज के नये अच्छे संगीत का घर.” That means: “Fever 104, home of the really good current music.” It’s much catchier in Hindi.
In fact, it’s better if you don’t, otherwise it makes the rest of us look bad.
I thought it was funny.
You laughed.
You can’t sink. With all that helium in you, you’re lucky you don’t float away.
I don’t think that’s possible, dude.
I didn’t come to help, I came to mock.
That’s true. He didn’t just stay there and talk about his feelings with the other psychotic villains. He, he broke out and poisoned Gotham’s water supply.
What’s this?
Foamy vengeance.
Oh, Sheldon, you remind me of a young Lex Luthor.
Here comes Kripke!
I believe that’s the president of the university.
Well, how could you not put in an abort?
Wow. Looks like the Ganges on laundry day.
Well, I’m going back to India. What’s your plan?
Ha! Eat my dust, racially stereotypical plumber.
And a cow and a penguin. Face it dude, whether it’s a real car or a virtual cartoon car, you can’t drive.
What you need is cheat codes, motor skills and a magic genie who grants wishes to little boys who suck at Mario Kart.
Well, then what are we going to do tonight?
Great. They get girlfriends, and they just abandon us?
We do?
I don’t want to do that.
What about me?
Dude, there’s so many cool things we could be doing tonight. Look. At the Glendale Galleria, put on your best zoot suit, it’s a salute to Swing music in the center court near Macy’s. 5pm to 9pm, huh, huh? A salute to zoot. Sounds like a hoot.
Race riots?
Oh. I always thought that was some sort of after-Christmas sale. Well, then why don’t we just go to the galleria and walk around?
No. We would just walk around and see what’s what.
Okay, well, how about this? From the university Web site, 7pm to 10pm, Norton Hall Multipurpose Room, mixer for grad students and faculty of the science and humanities departments. Whether you split atoms or infinitives, this is the place to be.
Come on, Sheldon, the world is filled with people doing things outside. Let’s go outside. Outside is good.
I don’t know, it’s a marketing scheme. Please, Sheldon, I’m a young, virile visitor from a foreign land and I need to strut my stuff.
Oh, boy.
I don’t want to go to Flatland.
Oy.
Sheldon, I’m begging you. I want to go to this mixer, and I don’t want to go alone.
What?
Thanks for coming with me.
Did you really have to bring it in with you?
Come on, let’s get a drink.
Yeah, well I do. And when my wingman is carrying a Green Lantern lantern, I drink a lot. I’ll have a screwdriver, please. Don’t be chintzy with the screw.
Sheldon, they don’t have ice cream.
He’ll have a Shirley Temple.
Okay, let’s check out the females.
That’s Professor Wilkinson’s wife, she’s like 80 years old.
No. I’m looking for a hookup.
Not so loud, but ideally, yes. Thanks.
You help me run my game.
How do you do? Rajesh Ramayan Koothrappali. Call me Raj.
The mysterious subcontinent of India.
You know India?
Well, I’m a slumdog astrophysicist.
Hello.
What was that?
जो भी तुम्हारे नाव मंगाई. That’s Hindi for whatever floats your boat. Uh, listen, I got a text from that girl Abby, and she and her friend Martha want to hang out with us again. What do you say?
I don’t get it. You had a great time.
Please, Sheldon, I’m a lost Indian boy far from home, and I want a girlfriend and I want her to be Abby, and she’ll only come over if she can bring Martha.
My Incredible Hulk hands signed by Stan Lee.
So does that mean we can go with the girls again?
You can’t wear the hands on the date.
Oh, God! Yes, we get it. You have a girlfriend now.
No, I’m not jealous. All right, I’d kill a hobo if it’ll get me laid. Now, can we order?
So?
Not Tso the chicken, so the question. So?
No, no, no, no, I think it just means it’s the kind of sauce that mobsters like.
There’s a 200-watt uninterruptible backup power supply.
There are independent voice and fingerprint scanners.
Great. It’s not like I brought it up because I wanted to go.
No, it’s okay. I don’t have to go. I’m happy just to guide you and your ladies to suitable entertainment choices. I’m a walking brown Yelp.com.
But if I don’t eat my lima beans, I can’t have my cookie.
Okay, just to be clear, roller skating was my idea, and I’m very unhappy that you turned it into a double date, and I hope you both fall on your asses and break your coccyxes.
Screw you. Give me back my lima beans.
How long can he keep this up?
He never went back to the university?
Sheesh.
But he’s afraid of dogs.
I’m on a cloud. Swing me.
Dude, I’m glad you finally got a girlfriend, but do you have to do all that lovey-dovey stuff in front of those of us who don’t?
Thank you.
Me.
Well, if anyone’s interested, I’ll be spending this Valentine’s Day the same way I spend every Valentine’s Day. Buying a rotisserie chicken from the supermarket, taking it home, standing over the sink and eating it out of the package with my bare hands like an animal.
Fine, tell us you’re going to have sex with Penny.
It’s okay. I don’t mind hearing about your sex life. It’s his that bugs me.
The big-boobed weather girl on Channel 2?
No way, dude!
Why wouldn’t you take Penny?
Oh. Well, then I anticipate an awkward situation when you get home.
I know. I saw the Tweet.
Not much. Nuked a burrito. Prayed to the Hindu god Urvashi that your bowels would loosen and your penis would droop like a willow tree.
No. Is he still mad about the supercollider?
What the hell is that?
You know what? Even though I don’t have a girlfriend, I can still have a good time on Valentine’s Day.
No, no, no, I’m going to have a me day. First I’m going to go to one of those spas in Koreatown, take a steam and get a massage. Then I’m going to stop at a pet store and get licked by puppies.
Oh, my goodness, look at this room! Champagne! Roses! Oh, and little chocolates! This is going to be the best Valentine’s Day ever.
But I never will.
What? I’m giving myself dramatic entrance music. People will know I’m awesome and to be feared.
Can’t believe it. We’re going to meet Stan Lee!
That’s a great idea, I’m going to get him to sign a Batman as well.
Well, obviously you don’t remember your circumcision.
I can’t wait to ask Stan Lee why he insists on giving all his characters first and last names that start with the same letter.
Bruce Banner, Reed Richards, Sue Storm, Stephen Strange, Otto Octavius, Silver Surfer, Peter Parker, oh, and worst of all, J. Jonah Jameson, Jr.
You called it.
Mine says, To Raj, from Stan Lee.
Hey, I didn’t even mention Dum Dum Dugan or Green Goblin, Matt Murdock, Pepper Potts, Victor Von Doom, oh, and worst of all, Millie the Model.
Fantastic Four, Daredevil, Invincible Iron Man, Happy Hogan, Curt Connors…
And worst of all, Fin Fang Foom.
And an Aquaman action figure.
Huh? That’ll come off.
It’s even got the Elvish engraving on it.
One Ring to find them.
Holy crap, are we nerdy.
Hold on. Sheldon, is there ketchup on that table?
No, that’s okay. I’ll get it.
Who’s this mysterious buddy you suddenly have?
Is it Eddie Crispo?
Who else could it be? It has to be Eddie Crispo.
Name one.
Wait, wait. Sheldon, stop being crazy for a second. How much is something like this worth?
Your guy Eddie Crispo?
Okay, that’s a lot of money. The wise thing to do is invest it in something practical. Like a jet ski.
All the wealthy and beautiful people in movies ride Jet Skis. That can’t just be a coincidence.
There are no Jewish hobbits.
Look, let’s be reasonable. We all want to do different things with the ring, but your ideas are stupid, and I want a jet ski.
Gentlemen, have you come to the realization that the only reasonable course of action is to sell the ring and divide the money?
I was afraid of that. Go ahead.
Also my cousin.
Forget the Jet Skis? That was our line in the sand! What happened to “tear them a new one?”
You’re useless.
I’m signing off now.
It’s all of ours.
Sure. Let go of the ring.
Wait, my laptop.
There are six seasons, dude.
No, no, no, the sixth season is great. We go to Paris with Carrie and get our heart broken, and then Mr. Big shows up, we don’t know if we can trust him again. It’s a wild ride.
Okay, everybody, and plie. And relevae.
No, he’s doesn’t! He’s lying to you!
Well, if you want privacy let go of the ring. I’m so glad we came to this gentile strip club! Howard, here’s more bacon to tuck into the shiksa’s G-string!
I think it’s lovely you call your mommy and let her know you’re going to be late for dinner. From what I know about these things, if a woman doesn’t breast-feed on time, it’s very uncomfortable for her boobies.
If you’re offended, let go of the ring and go on home to your mother’s boobies.
Why don’t we go after your mother?
You’re right. Let’s talk about your grandmother.
Think about this. The only way your mother was born was your Meemaw had sex.
Yeah, Meemaw did the nasty.
What?
It’s, it’s not working, dude.
Then let go of the ring and go.
Fine. Um, on the count of three. One, two…
Three.
The fires of Mount Doom?
Well, so then we start the game over until there’s a winner.
Okay in Avatar when they have sex in Pandora they hook up their ponytails, so we know their ponytails are like their junk.
So, when they ride horses and fly on the birds, they also use their ponytails.
My point is, if I were a horse or a bird, I’d be very nervous around James Cameron.
Well, good for him.
No.
Yeah, before the movie, you did 20 minutes on why guacamole turns brown. It turned brown while you were talking.
Okay, Sheldon. I’m going to be leading you through a series of meditation exercises. These methods come from the ancient gurus of India and have helped me overcome my own fears.
True, but thanks to meditation, I am able to stay in the same room with them without urinating. Now, close your eyes.
What?
I’m not going to punch you.
Do you want to do this or not?
All right. Imagine yourself in the one place you feel most at home. Where is that?
Okay, you’re in Sheldonopolis.
Whatever you like.
Fine. You’re in Sheldon Square.
Then, put on a sweater.
Yeah, whatever. Just go buy a sweater.
You own the damn thing. Just take a freaking sweater!
All right. You’ve paid for a sweater, and you’re in Sheldon Square.
What now?
Don’t worry. You’re surrounded by your C-Men.
Sheldon says impossible. Howard and I say not only possible, but as a mode of transportation, way cooler than a Batmobile.
Interesting. That might explain my weepy days in the middle of the month. You know what I’m talking about.
Big or small, I don’t like rabbits. They always look like they’re about to say something, but they never do.
Maybe that’s what they want to talk about.
Really? Because every time we’ve talked about unusual animal genitals, you’ve always had some pretty strong and controversial opinions.
Maybe he’s having a lover’s spat with Penny.
Did you think it would be funny to put on a pair of her panties and jump around, but it wound up just creeping her out?
I’m just asking, dude. It happens.
Did you start waxing?
Yeah, I think we’re getting close.
Oh, that would be a good way to go.
Ah, beer. The magic elixir that can turn this poor, shy Indian boy into the life of the party. Oh, yeah.
Ah, the premature I love you.
I don’t know about you, but I feel empowered.
Yeah, he’s over it, that’s why he’s been whining all day about trying to invent that memory-wiper gizmo from Men in Black.
Let me ask you a question. Do you believe you’re going to go to hell for eating sweet and sour pork?
Oh, there it is, now that you don’t have a girlfriend, you want to hang out with me again.
Oh, please, we all know I’m the friend you call when you have no other options. If we were the Justice League, I’d be Aquaman.
What, suddenly I’m not good enough for you?
I’ve missed you.
Hey, Leonard?
I haven’t had sex in a year.
Don’t flatter yourself, dude. I want to go out and meet a woman.
Well, I need a wingman. I don’t want to come off like a lonely loser.
Well, I do. Next to you, I’ll look like a catch.
All right. Would you mind if I went to your room and downloaded some Asian pornography?
Doesn’t have to be Asian.
No, I won’t.
You really think so?
But we’ll have sex first, right?
Look at this. Do you think she’s really doing that or is it PhotoShop?
You don’t know that. Prison changes people.
There are no solar flares right now.
Dude, I’m an astrophysicist. If there were solar flares, I’d be all up in it.
I don’t know. Do you think this is really Hillary Clinton doing it with Oprah?
Hey, do you think the elastic woman in The Incredibles needs to use birth control or can she just be a diaphragm?
What?
I’m sorry?
No.
I don’t put pepper on salads.
Oh, come on. I don’t want to sit by myself.
Guys, help me.
The cosmological physicist from Princeton?
Holy crap! Holy crap!
When can I sit with you again?
I can’t believe they let him into Canada.
Relax, it’s Nyquil.
Maybe, but I don’t care. That’s the great thing about Nyquil, it’s like ten-percent booze. I call it the nighttime sniffling, sneezing, coughing, so you can talk to girls medicine.
Did you get a cold, too?
She won’t notice they’re missing?
Ooh, ooh. Did the pigeon on your windowsill have more babies?
Did you get a Japanese love pillow?
It is if you love her and give her a name.
Hi.
I’m a big fan of your work.
What?
I can’t. I’m too sick. Go away.
I’m not hungry.
I bought a parrot.
Go away. She wants New Delhi, not Kosher deli. Besides, you have a girlfriend.
Why didn’t you say anything?
Oh, this is like a nightmare. Get lost!
Good?
Okay, show of hands. Who’s up for this?
Follow my lead. Almost. We’re, we’re going to go out into the hallway and, uh, make a dramatic entrance.
Run. Run, run, run. Don’t look back.
Hey.
Tushie is buttocks, right?
Hilarious.
Oh, yeah, I saw that. That was hilarious.
Okay, do you have an opinion about everything?
Why?
Fine.
Me, too.
You’re the guy we’re trying to get away from.
Cool. Can it break Mach 1?
Cool.
Wait. It’s here.
It’s not like that, I’m watching someone’s TV. The Good Wife is on. I tell you, this is my new Grey’s Anatomy.
Why don’t you ask her to come up?
Wait a second, the good wife is crying. Something’s very wrong.
I’m telling you, dude, the only way to feel better about Penny going out with other guys is for you to get back on the whores.
What?
That’s disgusting, dude.
You know what would be fun? Signing Sheldon up for online dating.
No, think about it. We make it an experiment. Like when Frankenstein’s monster was lonely and he found a wife.
Okay, we’ll call that plan B.
Holy crap.
We finally have proof that aliens walk among us.
The dating site matched a woman with Sheldon.
Yeah, look. Breasts and everything.
Since when?
Do you know what he’s talking about?
Leonard, what are you talking about?
That was a lousy suggestion.
Uh-oh. She wants to meet us.
Yes, but him doesn’t even know about her.
Really? Us gonna tell him?
Hi.
Right, okay. What are you doing tomorrow preevning?
But it’s true. But we-we put all your vital information into this dating site, answered all their questions just like you would, and they found a match for you. Her name is Amy Farrah Fowler.
Howard wanted to write mumbo jumbo, but I said no, our Sheldon would say hokum.
Okay, how about this. Even Spock had a date once every seven years.
Sheldon, I’ve hidden the dirty sock from the roof somewhere in your apartment. Unless you are willing to come with us to meet this girl, it will remain there forever.
Are you willing to risk it?
You don’t know we’re wrong yet.
Smooth.
Whoo-hoo!
And it only took 28 minutes.
You know, there’s something I’ve always wondered about Aquaman.
Where does he poop?
What would a toilet look like in Atlantis? How would you flush it? And when you did flush it, where would the poop go?
You slipped and fell into a robot hand?
Penis first?
Really? A robot hand’s got a death grip on your junk, dude. That’s funny, ask anyone.
A-All right, um, how about this. When, when Winnie the Pooh got his head stuck in the honey tree, his friends all grabbed onto him and pulled and pulled.
All right, uh, forget pulling. How about we get an electric saw and cut it off?
Right now, all I can think about is cookies and Hawaiian Punch.
Next time, take your own advice.
Now can we have cookies and Hawaiian Punch?
That’s my joke. I told it last night. You can’t just use it.
Oh, sure.
I’m a lamb.
That’s two, dude. Write your own jokes.
Spoiler alert! Spoiler alert.
Don’t ruin it for me, man. I printed out a PDF to read on the potty.
It’s a potty. What do you call it?
That’s a little vulgar for the dinner table, don’t you think?
Potty is innocent. Potty is adorable.
If I don’t have to boom-boom.
Ah. Nothing makes beer taste better than cool clear Rocky Mountain spring water. Where are the Rocky Mountains, anyway?
Really? I thought they were out West someplace.
Philadelphia. Okay, now I get it.
I’m very comfortable here. Penny, dear, why don’t you shoot another silver bullet my way?
Ooh, somebody’s been taking bitchy pills.
Well, if that’s the case, Penny will have to get satellite TV and maybe once a week run a vacuum through this place.
Oh, God, never again.
I was homesick.
That’s very offensive.
What does hit a reef mean?
Pardon?
Ah.
You’re kidding.
He takes the kitty to the potty?
Don’t try to change me, dude. I am what I am.
Hi.
I’m telling you, if xenon emits ultraviolet light, then those dark matter discoveries must be wrong.
Oh, you’re so arrogant. If you were a superhero, your name would be Captain Arrogant. And you know what your superpower would be? Arrogance.
Has it occurred to you you’re missing the big picture? If you look at neutron scattering data…
It’s one of his best moves.
You’re being unreasonable. Why can’t I have a desk?
You have a desk.
But I can’t have one.
Oh, but there’s money for a drawer full of Red Vines, a marshmallow shooting rifle, and a super executive ant farm with glow-in-the-dark sand?
Yeah, what if I buy my own desk?
Yes?
And I can put it in your office?
You said I could buy a desk.
Is that the American idiom for giant, big-ass desk?
Can you say it again for me?
One more time?
Now three times fast?
That’s for me, Ramon, Julio, Jesus and Rodrigo to know and you to find out.
No.
No.
No.
I have three brothers and two sisters, Sheldon, I can do this all day.
Knock yourself out.
No.
No.
No. It’s too Brobdingnagian.
Well, seeing as its purpose was to piss you off, I’d say it’s spot-on.
Thank you.
Hey, Sheldon?
No. See what I did there? I turned it around.
It’s not gonna work, dude, I grew up in India, an entire subcontinent where cows walk in the street, and nobody has ever had a solid bowel movement.
Well, we’ll just see how your noxious gas fares against my cinnamon-apple-scented aroma therapy candles.
This is not over.
Hey.
When I call him, his phone plays Brown Eyed Girl. Which, now that I think about it, is not so good.
Two words, deaf chick. It doesn’t matter if I can’t talk, because she can’t hear me.
That’s what she said.
Dude, why don’t you just invoke your girlfriend pact with Wolowitz?
Oh, Leonard, you remind me of the funny old story about a man who walks into a women’s correctional institution with a stack of paperwork that will allow the female convicts to go free.
Are you going to let me tell the story or not?
Hey guys, guess who I found at LAX. My baby sister Priya.
Can you believe it? Little Priya’s one of the lead attorneys for the biggest car company in India.
Alright, this goes without saying, but I’m just going to say it anyway. Hands off my sister.
I’m so not talking to you. I’m talking to him.
Oh please. My sister’s much hotter than your girlfriend and you know it.
Dude, that’s my sister you’re talking about.
Did you pinky swear?
Okay then.
Oh, not really, just hang out.
Train day?
I don’t think we’re going to do that.
Uh, my plans with Priya.
Hey, Leonard, will you please tell Howard my sister’s never been attracted to him.
Hey, so what did you guys think of the new episode of Caprica last night?
On Caprica night?
What were you doing with Priya?
What? You slept with my sister?
Excuse me, I think how could you she’s my sister takes precedence over a five year old pinky swear!
I… I don’t believe it, this is a terrible betrayal of my trust.
How hard did she stomp?
Okay, I’m good.
Dude! I put that thing on my face!
That was all a lie? This year’s gifts are already wrapped!
I can’t believe you kissed my sister with moth mouth.
Not the brush part, just the little rubber thing to pick food from my teeth and massage my gums.
As long as we’re apologising, Sheldon, I, I’m sorry I used your toothbrush.
I got you a talking Thomas the Tank Engine for Thanksgiving.
Yes.
Oh, yeah? What’s that look like?
Where are we going?
Whoa, whoa, whoa! I don’t want to speak to the FBI.
I’m brown and I talk funny.
It doesn’t matter. They’ll find a reason to give me a one-way ticket back to Gandhi-ville. By the way, when I say that, it’s not offensive.
Nobody cares. Do you know how long it’s been since I got through airport security without being given a colonoscopy?
Oh, Bella, don’t you see? Edward’s only pushing you away because he loves you. Coming.
Seven years.
I’m in this country legally, you know.
Of course not. I’m here on an H-1B visa, which means I can’t be associated in any way with crime or criminal activity. And I’m not.
No, just me. Oh, there it is. Here comes a cavity search.
Please don’t send me back to India, it’s so crowded. It’s like the whole country is one endless Comic-Con, except everybody’s wearing the same costume, Indian Guy.
I love this country! The-the baseball, the freedom, the rampant morbid obesity! From California to the New York Island, I’m a real Yankee Doodle boy!
My country ’tis of thee, duh duh duh liberty, It’s really great.
Well, actually, I may have gotten a little tipsy when I talked to her.
I may have thrown up rum cake on her shoes.
Ah, me, too.
I think he’s eating lunch. Uh, Sheldon, I want you to meet Neil deGrasse Tyson from the Hayden Planetarium in New York.
Oh, yeah.
Hello.
What’s in the bag?
Oh, my God, dude. Now you have to forgive him.
I haven’t cried like this since Toy Story 3.
Eight for 28.
Well I earned it, dude, I ate all my broccoli.
You know, guys, when facing disappointment, Eat, Pray, Love teaches us–
Hey, guys, bad news. I just did a quick calculation. Given the size of the theatre and the length of this line, we might not get seats.
Oh, oh, uh, looks like they’re getting ready to let people in.
We can still see something. Uh, the new Sandra Bullock movie is playing two blocks away. You know Sandy B always brings it.
Indy’s young sidekick from Temple of Doom.
You’re right. It should be a cuddly Asian boy. Like me.
Come on, guys! Hurry up! Hurry up!
You know who’s got to be the bravest person in the Marvel Universe? Whoever has to give She-Hulk a bikini wax.
Do you think they gave Wolverine an Adamantium prostate?
We’re having a conversation about probing the heinies of superheroes. There are no stupid questions.
Is that racist? It feels racist.
Oh, okay. Good. I don’t need more comics. Howard’s gonna stop by, we’re gonna play intergalactic battleship and Indian Monopoly.
What… what kind of a kiss?
Ooh, ooh! Do our babies will be smart and beautiful. That one always makes me laugh.
Miss.
Not if it has a hole in the middle.
A Romulan battle bagel?
Excuse me. I can’t be drinking, I’m about to make an important scientific discovery here.
How do you know that?
Dude, can you even open your mouth without spewing a cultural stereotype?
Your mom creeps the hell out of me.
I do appreciate that.
Bernadette, please tell your boyfriend to cool it with the cow jokes.
Yeah. Like his haircut material.
No. I got them all cut.
And when you go to a Chinese restaurant, he always gets the same fortune in his fortune cookie.
He’s right. Let’s make fun of his mother. Howard, come rub my feet! My corns are killing me!
Hello, Hawaii. This is Dr. Koothrappali in Pasadena. I’d like you to reposition the telescope, please. Scarlett Johansson’s house! I’m kidding, Hawaii. Mahalo. Whoo!
Maybe. If it did, I’d be famous. I’d be on the cover of magazines. And then, instead of living alone in my tiny apartment, I’d have a big mansion.
It is. If you like wandering around a big, empty house with no one to love you.
No, you wouldn’t. You’d be intimidated by my wealth and fame. My only friends would be my genetically engineered monkey butler, and the little people I hired to be my living chess set.
Oh, what’s the point of everything?
You know it’s been more than a year since I’ve even kissed a girl?
Oh, grow up. I was lying. I lie all the time. Nobody wants to kiss me.
Where?
Hey.
Oh, you know. Same old, same old. Looked through a telescope, saw some stars. Big whoop.
Why? You writing a book?
Nothing happened. Can we please just change the subject?
Hey.
He never touched my telescope.
I did shut up. Now you shut up.
Thank you. How come you didn’t call me this morning?
Five million, three hundred eighteen thousand and eight?
We’re good.
Just for the record, when you enter five million three hundred eighteen thousand and eight in a calculator, upside-down it spells boobies.
Did he get superpowers?
Oh. Well, that’s disappointing.
Well, you get bit by a radioactive animal in a lab, you kind of want to turn into a superhero.
Who wouldn’t? You could zip through a maze in nothing flat, squeeze through really small holes, and shut down restaurants in a single bound. And the best part is, if I were Rat-Man, you could be my sidekick, Mouse Boy.
You don’t like Mouse Boy? How about, uh, uh, Kid Vermin?
Rat-Man is nobody’s sidekick.
Yeah, Leonard, who?
Oh, hey.
I don’t know. Um, nuclear war. Accidentally being buried alive. Any of those movies where you get that phone call that says you’re going to die, and then you do.
Well, type two diabetes runs in my family. The thought of losing a toe…
What the heck is this?
Are you crazy?
No. But it’s a stupid test.
Oh, yeah? What if the earth was in danger and the only way to save it was to take a shower in the locker room and let other guys see you naked?
All right, I will.
It’s easy. The spider’s crawling up your arm.
Wait. What the hell is ding?
I don’t think this kind of wrestling has a bell.
I say, uh, how about one, two, three, go?
Okay, how about, uh, on your mark, get set, go?
No, it’s chilly outside. Didn’t bring my jacket.
What kind of superhero says dibs on the red tights, dibs on the red tights.
Wait. Are we starting now? Or is that what you’re going to say when we do start, or…
Don’t yell at me!
Oh, yeah? Well, I’ve been taking Pilates class at the rec center, and my abs look like sections of a Hershey bar.
No, uh-uh, you’re going down!
You realize you can’t win.
You’re wrong. It’s only a matter of time before you fall into Rat-Man’s rat trap.
Just because I didn’t express myself well doesn’t mean my underlying point was invalid! You bloviating buffoon!
You crimson coward! Oh, Leonard, wake up, you’re missing some very excellent superhero quips.
Water Demon.
What the hell did I do?
And nobody drew a penis on his forehead.
First day of cricket camp. They drew it so the testicles were my eyes.
A Milk Dud?
Junior Mints are pretty apologetic.
No.
The Archies are over here.
But I’m Green Lantern.
I don’t want to be Aquaman. He sucks. He sucks underwater. He sucks fish pee.
I’ve said this before, and I’ll say it again. Aquaman sucks.
Looks like someone else is going to have to be Wonder Woman.
Stupid Aquaman.
Oh, great. No Superman, no Wonder Woman? All we’ve got is a skinny Flash, an Indian Aquaman, a nearsighted Green Lantern, and a teeny, tiny Dark Knight.
Ooh, I call Kermit.
Oh, man. Scooter sucks. He’s the Aquaman of the Muppet Babies.
That’s a Hanukkah present you’re regretting, huh?
You know what’s a great app? The one that makes fart noises.
Where would you go?
You know, if I made more money, I could take time off from work and give pretty girls submarine rides.
No. You take pretty girls underwater in your private submarine, and you show them fish. Why does everything have to be dirty with you?
I think we should take a picture to capture this moment.
Hey, why am I in charge of phone support? Seems a bit racist.
Oh. Very clever. But still racist.
Ooh. Leonard’s going all alpha nerd on Sheldon’s ass.
So it spells Sheldon?
Mm. Last night, I had a dream we got so rich from the app, you and I bought matching side-by-side mansions. But there was a secret tunnel connecting your front yard to my back yard. What do you think that means?
World’s Greatest Astrophysicist?
What are you talking about?
Hey, we agreed when it was Eureka time, we were all gonna say it together.
No. The moment has passed.
You mean, Project Lenwoloppali?
Hey, look at this. 20 people from the university have already signed up for our private beta.
What do you think we should sell it for?
Well, what if we put out a lite version for half a million? You know, get the word of mouth going.
I’ll tell you one thing. If I get rich enough, that’s the kind of girl I want to take on a submarine ride. And yes, that time, I meant it to be dirty.
Oh, my God, I’m crying already.
Why?
Okay. Come on in.
Hey, Leonard, Sheldon kicked me out of the room, gave me your key.
Certainly. I’d like to raise two points. Number one, I think they are talking about penises. And number two, these mimosas are kicking my little brown ass.
What did I do?
I did. You said no Bridget Jones.
I’d like to weigh in here. No.
Ooh, somebody took pictures and uploaded them to their Flickr account.
Mmm, I know the feeling. It’s like accidentally walking into a gay bar and then having no one hit on you. It-It happened to a friend of mine.
Thank you, but cute is for bunnies. I want to be something with sex appeal, like, like a labradoodle.
You really think so?
Well, thanks, Bernadette. And just for the record, labradoodles are hypo-allergenic, which is a very sexy quality to those troubled by animal dander.
What?
Dude, that’s incredible!
Aw, I’m gonna miss you. Are you going with him?
What kind of needs?
I say okey-dokey.
Just that I’m definitely not gay.
Uh-huh.
What happened?
Oh, no!
It’ll be okay. It’ll be okay. It’s Howard. Howard, hello.
Yeah, I’m right here, buddy. How are you?
No, no, no, don’t say that. You’re going to be all right.
Of course, of course. Now when you say look after, you mean…
Excuse me, Bernadette. I have to hear it from him.
Got it. Take care. I guess I have no choice but to make sweet, guilt-free love to you over and over again for the rest of my life.
What?
Oh, right. Good one.
Here’s what I wonder about zombies. What happens if they can’t get any human flesh to eat? They can’t starve to death, they’re already dead.
Yeah, okay, so, zombies.
Hey, don’t bag on Sandra Bullock! You think it makes you look cultured, but you just come off as bitter.
Or maybe he heard it’s Tator Tot Tuesday. That’s why I’m here.
Sounds great!
Oh, you don’t want that.
Oh, boy! Tator tots and a party invitation? What a great day!
Nice place. Reminds me of my parents’ house back in New Delhi.
No. We are very wealthy. But the only difference is, we have more servants.
More than we can use. You see, in India, we don’t make the mistake of letting our poor people have dreams.
I think we were misled about the cute girls.
Do him first.
It’s Koothrappali. I have to tinkle.
Oh, don’t be such gloomy Gusses. Look at the size of these shrimp! At what point do we start calling them lobsters?
Cool, buddy! That’s awesome!
You can’t come in.
I forbid it.
You heard me. I forbidded it.
Forbaded it?
Clearly, she was sending you a message to take a hike, Mike.
No!
It’s completely inappropriate for a single woman to entertain a man in private. If you insist on talking, you must do it on the couch! All right, you may talk in the bedroom, but I want this door to remain open! All right, just this once you may close the door. But keep in mind I’ll be right out here monitoring the situation! Oh, damn it. Leonard, when you get this message, call me. Priya, this is your brother. When you get this, tell Leonard to check his voicemail.
Why are you holding hands? I forbid you to hold hands.
Yeah, but you were just sleeping, because I forboded you to have sex.
Are you sure? That doesn’t sound right.
There it is, Priya. We’re Indian. We believe this stuff.
Some of it makes sense, some of it’s crazy. My point is, you can’t go out with Leonard.
My sister.
Penny, you became disenchanted with Leonard as a lover. Would you please tell my sister why?
She says it the same way I do. I’d love that. Everybody in India says it that way. It’s not a big deal.
I’m not being a child. Leonard, I swear to God, if your sister ever comes to town, I shall have my way with her.
All the more shame that will fall upon the house of Hofstadter.
Hey, you’re just in time. We made Tex-Mex.
Okay, we’ve got fajitas with all the fixins, so you make your own.
Nope. Gates gave a speech at the university. Sheldon went up to him afterwards and said, maybe if you weren’t so distracted by sick children in Africa, you could have put a little more thought into Windows Vista.”
I’d like to propose a toast to a rare and wonderful Sheldon-free evening.
Sheldon tells it better.
I still wear mine when there’s a nip in the air.
Come on in.
I’d like to propose a toast to friends, no matter how quirky.
Is the trick making him disappear? Sure, let’s see it.
Okay.
Okay.
October sixth.
How about that!
Yes, it is. Very cool!
Beefaroni and a show? How do you turn that down?
These cards have barcodes on them. The wand is a reader. It’s transmitting to your phone.
Okay.
Son of a gun, you’re blowing my mind!
You ever gonna tell him?
So never.
Hi!
Why so glum, chum?
Hold on. I’m talking to an orc under the bridge in Thunder Bluff who says if we pay him, he’ll help us track down your things.
I should say so, he appears to be a member of the Nigerian royal family.
Bad news, the Nigerian prince may be a fraud.
I don’t think my character should be in a place like this. Everyone’s undressing her with their eyes.
Sheldon, what if he gets his Internet from his cable company? He could lose his HBO and all their delightful original programming.
Okay, I see where this is going. Fine, I’ll have sex with him.
Good, because I would hate that.
Oh, no, don’t put me in the middle of this. I’m not going to be your go-between.
There’s no reason to worry.
I’m sure many women in happy relationships spend their nights skyping with their ex-boyfriend Sanjay.
What else do we know about him?
I totally had one of those.
I have a hip-hop aerobics class at five, could we go after?
Oh, come on, man. Bros before… my sister.
Me, too.
Sitar music for her ringtone is not cool, dude.
Very nice. You lie to my sister.
Hello, Priya. What’s up? How would I know if Leonard’s at work or not? Don’t be suspicious. Look, if you want your relationship with Leonard to continue, you’re going to have to believe whatever wild-eyed, cockamamie excuse the white devil has the nerve to offer you. Okay? Yeah, bye-bye. You owe me.
Hey, how about we stay the night and hit Legoland in the morning?
Yeah, we’re coming for you, Todd Zarnecki. And for the record, Legoland is more interactive.
I took the liberty of burning us a mix of heroic questing music.
It’s a re-writable CD. Just put it in.
She’s curvy and she owns it. I like that.
Don’t say your doom. Who opens the door for their doom?
Legoland seems like a hollow dream now.
What’s the matter?
Very basic.
Hello, Mummy. Hello, Daddy. How are you?
I am making her comfortable. Besides, she’s not sleeping here half the time anyway.
It, it doesn’t matter. Howard has a girlfriend.
What does that mean?
Is something going on with him and Bernadette?
Don’t worry. Everything I have, I share with her. Including my friend Leon…
Oh, my God, I think you broke my toe!
Fair enough. Now, what’s up with Clarinet? Bernadette!
Are you listening to this guy?
So what’s up?
Oh, no. I hope everything’s okay.
Yeah. Good or devastating.
What?
No rush, no rush.
I know. It’ll be awful.
Uh, a smile means something different in my country. You know, tears of joy, smile of sadness. India’s a goofy place.
I just felt like drinking alone, because I’m deep and dark.
No. It’s just one of those times when it’s just you and me. Like when the three of us went to the movies and you and I waited outside the bathroom while Howard threw up Red Vines and Cherry Coke. Do you remember that?
Me, too. Good times.
This was nice.
I was when I came in, but it’s amazing what liquor does to guilt. Besides what you might not know is, Bernadette is planning on breaking up with Howard.
My sister told me.
None taken. You should hear how she talks about you.
What can I do? I can’t stop thinking about her.
Shut your ass!
How did that even happen? Did they know that’s what they were doing when they were doing it?
Wow. I can’t believe old Smelly Pooper finally got laid.
Leonard, please. The man is talking. Let him get it out, and let the chips fall where they may.
This is it.
You will?
Mmm, Greek food on pizza night? This is the most delightfully cruel thing we’ve done to Sheldon since we left that fake message from Stephen Hawking on his voice mail.
The lonely guy and the two happy couples? I’d rather get a prostate exam from a leper who walks away with nine fingers.
I have to feel sorry for myself. I’m the only one who cares. Just like I’m the only one who’ll have sex with me.
Excuse me. I’m going to go wander the streets alone. Invisible, unwanted and unloved, a pathetic shadow in a city with no heart. I forgot my windbreaker. It’s chilly.
I need a hug.
Come on, Sheldon, open the door.
I don’t want to hug you, either. I was just feeling blue.
Well, not so much depressed as lonely.
What?
Nothing rhymes with orange. It’s probably lonely.
What are you doing?
Oh, cool. Can I play?
No.
No, thank you. I’m fine.
I, uh, I guess you’re probably wondering what’s got me down.
I’m going to be 30 years old, and I have no one in my life to love me. I’m such a basket case, I can’t even talk to a woman without having alcohol in my body.
Sheldon, listen to me. I have a big decision to make, and I’m scared.
A friend at the School of Pharmacology gave me these new pills they’re testing. He says it’s the next big thing for social anxiety disorder.
I’m not sure. Some sort of beta-blocker attached to a molecule extracted from the urine of cows.
That’s not the point.
I’m a scientist. My ability to think is my bread and butter. I’m afraid if I take this, I might lose that special, unique something that makes me so successful in my field.
Thank you for coming with me, Sheldon. You’re a good friend.
Okay, let’s see if this drug works.
Forgive me for staring, but you’re very beautiful.
India.
It’s a beautiful country. You’d love it. May I join you?
My name is Dr. Rajesh Koothrappali, and this is my friend Dr. Sheldon Cooper.
We’re scientists. We observe everything. Here, go buy yourself a scone.
And what is your name?
Oh, derived from the word angel. Appropriate.
Wait, where are you going? We were doing so well. She never even got to see my penis. Ta-da!
Hey! That’s my sister and my country you’re talking about. Leonard may have defiled one, but I won’t have you talking smack about the other.
Ooh, fire demon. Sheldon’s turning up the heat.
Check it! Howard pulls one out from under the bridge. Nice!
Oh, yeah, she’s got puddles in all the right places.
Sorry. Walking tree.
I’m taking a stroll and I’m sporting wood.
Oh, that sounds lovely.
Sheldon, that’s my water.
I know.
Your girlfriend and your ex-girlfriend are hanging out together? Oh, yeah, that can only be good for you.
One of them broke up with you. Do you really want her telling the other one why?
Good, good. Then you have nothing to worry about.
You’d think it’d be because my parents didn’t love me, but actually they loved me a great deal.
Like what?
What do you mean, a show?
Like, to music?
So you’d do a striptease?
Good, good.
Well, I don’t think you have to worry about Penny telling my sister that.
Your big problem is me telling her.
What if she wasn’t kidding?
He takes the elf from off the shelf.
Hell Hounds. Who let the Satanic dogs out? Who? Who-who?
I got a colossal serpent right here.
Sorry, I’m just trying to cheer my buddy up. Rotting Zombie. Sheldon’s new Facebook photo.
Really, ten miles? You’re orbiting inside the atmosphere? Moron.
Okay, gotta go.
Leonard’s putting disgusting memories in my memory foam mattress. Can I stay here tonight?
I guess that’s okay.
She’s kidding, right?
Leonard’s having astronomically inaccurate Star Trek sex with my sister.
Oh, don’t bother. I’ll just sleep in Leonard’s room.
Well, he’s in my bed. Why can’t I be in his?
Come on, dude, I’m exhausted, and Tyra Banks says the most important item in your makeup bag is a good night’s sleep.
Good night, Sheldon.
You’re kidding.
I was sleeping.
Well, I would’ve slept in my own bed, but it was being used to bring shame to my family. And the memory of Gene Roddenberry.
Scotty, I need more power.
Are you kidding? He made me sign a waiver, participate in an emergency fire drill and take a refresher course in CPR. Thank God he had a dummy.
Oh, my God, she’s that Mona? Why can’t you and my sister spend your nights here?
Sheldon doesn’t get along with Sheldon. It’s still no reason for me to have to listen to you arm your photon torpedoes every night.
Can I bring girls here?
Okay, deal.
He’s right. A minute on the lips, a lifetime on the hips.
When did you take my blood?
What the hell is this?
This says you can make end of life decisions for me.
Did you sign this?
Well, that seems fair.
Sheldon, dinner!
This is the difference between eating and dining.
It’s not a big thing. Just think of me as a brown Martha Stewart.
I’m the new Homo in town. That came out wrong.
He’s living at my place, so I’m living here.
It’s a good thing.
More wine?
Well, it’s a lot better than having to wear noise-cancelling headphones in my own apartment.
Every night.
It’s my sister. Can we not talk about this any more?
Yeah.
Well, uh, to paraphrase Shakespeare, It’s better to have loved and lost than to stay home every night and download increasingly shameful pornography.
What’s wrong with me, Penny?
Hey, you totally got that right! E equals M C squared.
To friendship.
Hey.
What is it to you?
Yeah, right. You’re just jealous because it turns out I’m Penny’s number two choice after Leonard.
Why do you care so much? You’re dating my sister, and Penny and I are in love.
Yes, I am. The god Kamadeva has shot us with his flowery arrows of love.
He’s the Hindu version of Cupid, but way better, because he rides a giant parrot.
Rubbish. He’s talking rubbish.
That could have been about anyone. Besides, you have nothing to worry about, because now I’m the dusky half of Koothrapenny.
Please, come in.
Well, you were always so nice to me, I thought maybe you liked me.
I’m sorry.
I will. Hey, Bernadette?
Do you think I have a shot with Penny?
Hi, Amy. Can I talk to Penny?
It’s all over her Facebook page.
I was wondering if you’re free Friday. They’re having a Totally ’80s Night at the Greek. Hall & Oates, Katrina and the Waves and three-fifths of Kajagoogoo.
Aw, there’s a thing.
You can’t ruin a friendship with sex. That’s like trying to ruin ice cream with chocolate sprinkles.
Oh. All right.
Well, uh, as your friend, you might like to know that, um, we didn’t have sex in the conventional sense.
No, no. After we got undressed and jumped in bed, you, you asked if I had protection.
Of course. I’m always packing. Anyway, um, I had trouble putting it on and you tried to help and, that was all she wrote.
I did. It was beautiful.
Penny, please, please promise me you won’t tell anybody about this.
Oh, good. Um, can I tell people that our love burned too bright and too quickly? Kind of a Candle in the Wind deal?
Cool. Can I say it fell apart because you were all, I want to have your babies, and I was like, I’m too rock and roll to be tied down?
Can I say I ruined you for white men?
Okay, just the candle thing.
Cool. All right friend.
I’ll see you around.
Penny?
It’s getting beautiful again.
Screw you. That was a beautifully written penis metaphor.
Sure, whatever.
Here, here.
Please, Penny, let me. We’ve decided to let our crazy, wonderful night together be just one of those memories you have and can call to mind when you’re feeling blue or you’re in the shower.
Sorry. Go on.
This is fun. I’ve never used a hydraulic thermoforming press before.
Oh, yeah. This is one good-looking panini.
Come on, dude. This is my sister you’re talking about.
How can you be so racist?
I’ll try it. Like this?
Like this?
Better?
I’m impressed. This is very lifelike.
I, I nibbled. I was being playful.
Sorry. Better?
Yeah. Hey, you know, if this was in Sheldon and Leonard’s apartment, I wouldn’t wind up sitting on the floor all the time.
What kind of idiot throws away a terrific chair like this?
Mmmmmm.
Maybe. Why not? Who do I have in my life to watch my figure for?
No, it’s just that everybody’s got someone. Sheldon’s with Amy, Howard’s getting married, you’re dating my sister.
You know who I blame for my loneliness? The United States of America. Your movies and your TV shows promised streets paved with beautiful blonde women with big bazongas.
That’s cruel. You know it goes straight to my hips.
I don’t know if I want to play anymore.
What’s it thinking about now?
Hi.
Does she really mean that or was she signing it sarcastically?
Okay, I’m going to play it cool. Tell her, maybe. Whatever, babe.
Ah, look at that. I have a date. I love America again.
Okay, as soon as she gets here, so she knows I’m cool with it, I’m going to make a joke about her being deaf. I was thinking, hey, did you hear the one about…? Oh, no, I bet you didn’t.
Oh, she’s here.
Tell her it doesn’t matter. Tell her, her eyes shimmer like opalescent lilies in the lake of the palace of the celestial maidens.
I worked on it all night. Use it.
Then spell it.
You’re blowing this for me!
You’re making me sound like a caveman.
Really? Ask her how many children she wants, and whatever number she says, say, me too.
Fine. Tell her I have a deep, sexy voice like James Earl Jones.
Great. Then she won’t know I’m lying.
Let’s see, what else can I tell you about me that would make you like me? Ooh, I love music. Do you love music?
You’re right. Everyone loves music.
No, but when I was six years old, I tried to start a boy band called Frankie Goes to Bollywood. But I couldn’t get any other boys to join, so my parents asked the servants to be my backup dancers. Wait, when you sign servants, don’t sign it like I’m bragging. Sign it in a way that I sound humble with just a hint of, that’s right, I had servants.
Yes, but she doesn’t. So get signing, hand monkey.
What are you doing?
Dude, what is she saying?
What? Why?
It’s a little hard to see with the city lights, but that W-shaped constellation is Cassiopeia. And she was the mother of Andromeda who’s over there.
Good, good. Oh, boy, help me out here. Does she want me to kiss her or not?
If you were me, would you kiss her?
I was so smooth on that date.
Whatever, dude. She kissed me.
Oh, fine. Let’s agree she kissed both of us.
I’m so mad at you!
How dare you ambush my girlfriend at the gym!
I’m hammered.
The best one I ever had!
Aha. I see what’s going on here. You and I had our crazy night together, and now you can’t stand to see me with another woman.
It’s okay. I can’t get mad at your feelings.
Yeah, that’s good. Keep telling yourself that.
I have a surprise for you. Cover your eyes. Open them. It’s a real ruby. It was a little expensive, but no one can put a price on love. Although, the people at Cartier took a pretty good shot at it. Oh, Mummy, Daddy. What a nice surprise.
Penny?
I just got her a couple of things. She gives me things, too.
What? You’re going to make me choose between the woman I love and the money I have very strong feelings for?
Well, I choose love.
My parents are making me choose between money and you. I choose you. No, I think we’ll have to return the car. And that necklace, yeah, that, too. But none of those things matter, because we have something better. We have love.
Oh, Penny, I hurt so bad.
Sometimes I put the TV on mute just to pretend she’s still with me. But I can’t watch the closed captioning without crying.
Seriously? I’m heartbroken and you’re hitting on me?
Look, Penny, you’re great, but I had a long talk with my parents, and they said if I date an Indian girl, I get a Maserati.
Mmm. Oh, cheesecake, you’re just as good as a woman, even though I can’t have sex with you.
Wow. You’re not only our first astronaut. You’re also the first one of us to kick a girl out of bed. You’re like a rock star.
So, what’s gonna happen next? Are you and Bernadette going to break up?
Then she’s going to have to convince your mother to let you go into space.
Sure.
Hey, you know that beautiful actress who plays the Borg Queen in First Contact?
Well, I just met her gynaecologist!
I couldn’t find you guys so I bought six new friends. Three, sadly, are dead.
Of course. Mrs. Cooper. So nice to see you again.
Nothing, I’m fine.
No.
I’m so lonely.
I didn’t get a lot of that because of your accent, but the general tone was soothing and somehow I feel better.
You should’ve seen your face.
He’s probably right.
I had pee his pants.
What is she doing in a comic book store?
You have a thing of paper clips right there.
I don’t know. Maybe.
All right. Who do we have here?
Oh, did some bad man put us in a drawer?
Let’s go to the biology lab and find you some nice yummy mice.
Totally. What’s wrong with cap sleeves? If you have the right figure for it, they’re adorable.
Mm, I’m thinking about adopting some quirky affectation, like a pipe or a monocle or a handlebar moustache.
This is not a safe place. You can’t share anything here.
Come on, Sheldon, Star Wars.
I really don’t get your problem with birds.
Hummingbirds are pretty.
Still my first choice for an ankle tattoo. Or a dolphin, I go back and forth.
Yes, please. This is way better than the movie.
That is one tough birdie.
Hey, look, the new Warlords of Ka’a expansion pack is out.
They’re not even trying. Remember the Satanimals pack with the Hellephant? Why, absurd. What was he, a bad elephant who died and went to hell? What could an elephant possibly do that would cause him eternal damnation?
A total loser. Obviously a guy with a six-shooter beats an old man with a magic wand.
Stuart, settle an argument for us. Who would win, Billy the Kid or the White Wizard?
I’ll take one.
Wild Bill Witchcock.
Incredibly so.
Incredibly so.
Annie Ogly.
Totally you.
Hey, guys, check it out. The deluxe limited edition Wild West and Witches expansion pack in the signed and numbered collector’s tin.
Yeah, it’s also a wand.
Please. You’re looking at Facebook to find out how their date went.
You’re so full of it.
You unfriended me? Seriously?
Is that him over there?
How about that guy? He looks like he’d hate you.
So, have you figured out what you’re going to say to him?
What’s that one?
Hey, I won a Newcomb medal, too.
That sounds amazing. First movie I’m watching, Annie.
That’s funny because those aren’t the kind of kisses you want on your nipples.
That was pretty badass, dude.
What’s that?
Ordinary, yet I sense it is dripping with magical potential.
I’m telling you, dude, there’s a seat on the Hogwarts Express with your name on it.
Can’t you just enjoy the wonder, Sheldon? Why must you peek behind the curtain? Or up the butt?
Oh, me, too. You’re so caring. I’ve often pictured you guiding a young boy into manhood.
Hey, just because a man shows caring for another man doesn’t mean he’s displaying the love that dare not speak its name. Did she definitely say she didn’t want kids?
Wow, that’s rough. Where’d you get that?
What’s your mom going to say if you call off the wedding?
Did you forget what Penny did to you? It took you two years and defiling my sister to turn that frown upside down.
I heard you call her Brown Sugar. In my book, that’s defilement.
If they ever make a movie version of that book, you know who should play Leonard’s mother? Sandra Bullock.
Because she’s great in everything.
He’s got to be doing this on purpose.
I guess it didn’t go well.
You were in the middle of an erection.
I will take that action.
I stopped on the way to work. Hey, do you want to peel the plastic off with me?
Grab a corner. Whoa, what’s your hurry, cowboy? Savour the moment.
Hey, I let you peel the plastic, don’t get greedy. Hello?
What’s your name?
Are you single?
Yeah, you’re right, that’s too personal. We hardly know each other. How about a cup of coffee?
I will see you gentlemen later.
So, Siri, what’s happening? How are you?
What are you doing right now?
You have a beautiful voice.
I bet it is. Why don’t women like me?
No need. I’ve already done that. Siri, do you have a last name?
Ah, one name. Like, uh, Cher, Madonna, Adele. All the women who rock me. My name is Rajesh, but you can call me Raj.
I’d like you to call me sexy.
Okay.
Thank you, darling.
I’m sorry?
I haven’t bonded with it.
It’s just a phone.
Thanks, Barry. Siri, remind me Friday morning to make my famous popovers.
Hey, don’t talk to her like that. She’s a lady.
Good timing. Dinner’s almost ready.
Oh, an exotic little treat. I was just talking to Siri about Peking duck, and she said she knew about four Chinese grocers, two of which were fairly close to me. Her spontaneity is contagious.
Can I pour you some wine? I think you’ll enjoy it. The traditional choice with Peking duck is a Sauvignon Blanc, but Siri suggested an off-dry Riesling. I wasn’t sure, but I didn’t want to have an argument with her in the middle of Trader Joe’s. Now, what should we put Siri in for dinner? Leopard, sparkles, or to paraphrase Coco Chanel, you can never go wrong with a little black case. Siri, play some smooth jazz.
Oh, my God, Kenny G? This woman can read me like a book. I can’t believe I bought my soul mate at Glendale Galleria.
Thank you.
Um, Expedition 31 will launch this spring to the International Space Station. Crew members will include Commander Tom ‘Tombo’ Johnson, astronaut Mike ‘Supernova’ Novacelik and Payload Specialist Howard Wolowitz.
Dude, if you’re going to be an astronaut, you need to pick a cool nickname.
Oh. If I had one, it would be Brown Dynamite.
Are you not looking at me? I am Brown Dynamite. Why do you put six sugars in your coffee?
How’d you do?
They put you under for a cleaning?
Maybe your nickname should be Brown Dynamite.
Their meatballs are pretty good.
Nothing, nothing.
Ooh, ooh! What about we make your astronaut nickname Howard “Buzz” Wolowitz?
Buzz Lightyear is not real.
Well, are you talking about when he thought he was real?
Okay, um, how about Crash”? Howard “Crash” Wolowitz.
All right, um, how about, oh, how about Rocket Man?
Maybe there’s a way to get them to come up with it.
Okay, uh, what if we make Rocket Man your ringtone, and the next time you talk to those guys, I’ll call you and they’ll hear it. Plant the seed.
They don’t call me Brown Dynamite for nothing.
Ooh, Sock Mouth’s got him on the ropes.
Oh, yeah. There’s a reason he’s Sir Elton John. They don’t make you a knight for writing Wake Me Up Before You Go Go.
Gamma.
Upsilon?
Hey, guys, guys, President Siebert is headed this way.
You know, if I had a week off, I’d go back to the Two Bunch Palms Resort and Spa in the desert. I tell you, an hour on the massage table with Trevor, and you’ll feel like you were born without bones.
Really? What was I doing to your neck last night while you were playing X-Box?
No hi, Raj? No how are you, Raj? Just straight to where’s the other white guy?
Ooh, gossip. When I first got here, I thought you Americans really gossiped around the water cooler. So I hung out there for, like, a month, but the only gossip I ever heard was about some creepy guy hanging out by the water cooler.
Oh, that’s a shame, he’s gonna be devastated.
Hmm. I’m gonna give you the same advice I yell at the TV when the Bachelor’s handing out roses. Follow your heart.
Follow your heart.
Like what?
Mr. Roper’s dead? You can’t just spring that on a guy.
It was a nice retirement party.
Hey, look, there’s Rothman’s empty office. Sad.
I’m glad that men are wearing hats again. They’re so distinguished.
Would you look at this? I paid twenty five dollars to some kid on eBay for a handcrafted Harry Potter wand. He sent me a stick. He went into his backyard, he picked up a stick.
Ooh, limited edition. Nice.
How about you decide this with Rock-Paper-Scissors-Lizard-Spock?
Is there anything you’re both equally bad at?
Yeah.
I’m happy for you, Sheldon. But I have to admit I’m going to miss sharing an office with you.
Thank you.
Well, at least you finally got a window that opens. That’s nice.
What, you don’t like wind chimes?
So?
Payload Specialist Howard Wolowitz is requested to report to the NASA Johnson Space Center, Houston, Texas, for astronaut training Monday eight a.m.
But it says eight a.m.
It doesn’t have an oh in front of it.
You could go to my guy. He’s at Juan-Juan in Beverly Hills. They bring you a cup of tea, they’ll massage your scalp. It’s about two hundred dollars, but sometimes you look in the next chair and you see a superstar like Tony Danza.
Now who’s dying of jealousy? Oh, it’s you.
Hey, want to spend some time playing the new Star Wars game this weekend?
You know what would be great? Let’s do it like the old days.
Yeah. Start Saturday morning, go 48 hours, sleeping bags, junk food.
We were badass back in the day.
It’s on like Alderaan.
Woo-hoo!
I can never find the tiller. I got a book; it didn’t help.
Here you go. I’ve got everything we’ll need for the big game. Low fat turkey jerky, low-carb beer, 100-calorie snack packs.
Hey, I plan on levelling up in the game, not my swimsuit size, thank you very much.
What, you invited your girlfriend? This is supposed to be our weekend.
Got him. When Gandhi advocated his philosophy of non-violence, I bet he didn’t know how much fun it was killing stuff.
Bernadette, remember, your character’s the healer in our group. You’re in charge of healing all of us, not just Howard.
But e-excuse me, I have something to say. None of you may realize it, but I was very much looking forward to this weekend. It was gonna be like the old days, the four of us hanging out playing video games before you guys all got girlfriends. Do you have any idea what it’s like to be the only one without a girlfriend? Even if I get one someday, I’ll still be the guy who got a girl after Sheldon Cooper!
Just leave! Okay, now. This is the way it’s supposed to be. Men together, fighting the forces of evil.
I can’t believe this is only 64 calories.
I’ll let you know.
Alright, uh, fine, I’m coming and I’m bringing somebody. Uh, Koothrappali plus one.
Who are you bringing?
Wow, what a bunch of Nosey O’Donnells.
I’m not telling. I’m from Asia. I’m mysterious. Deal with it.
Listen, uh, there’s something I want to talk to you about. I, I wasn’t ready until now, but I think it’s time.
No, I’m not gay. If anything, I’m metrosexual.
It means I like women as well as their skincare products.
‘Cause I, I’m tired of trying to meet someone and, I think I’d like you to help me find uh, a wife.
Yes.
Oh yes. In my culture it’s expected to have a chaparone to oversee a first date. Plus I want to make a good impression and, no offence, but with you guys here I look like six two.
Listen, I love your charming racist humour, but any chance you could not knock my religion while she’s here.
It’s different. You’re people don’t worship lox.
Oh, no, no, I get a say in it. But I’m sure whoever shows up will be better company than a threesome I’ve been having with Aunt Jemima and Mrs Butterworth.
Oh, yes. You must be Lakshmi. Uh, nice to meet you.
Oh, uh, these are my, my friends. This is Bernadette.
And this is Howard.
Please have a seat. I’m thinking double wedding!
Well, I hope you saved room for chocolate lava cake.
Well, you start off by trying to make chocolate souffle, and when it falls you panic, quickly change the name, and voila! Lava cake.
Well, let’s see. Yup, three missed calls.
I’d like to tell them things are going well.
Okay, what page are you on?
Say again.
Like, dude on dude, but with women?
Why me, of all people?
I’m not gay.
That’s Unbreakable by Khloe and Lamar. And for your information, it’s unisex.
I like to boogie.
W-w-with women. I like to boogie with women.
Thankyou. And once again, my baloney likes girls. Wait-wait. You don’t want to put a bit of that in your mouth without trying my homemade chantilly cream. Yeah, okay, that time I heard it.
Ready for lunch?
Hey, uh, can I run something by you? It’s about Lakshmi.
We hit a couple of bumps. She lives over on Manhattan Beach, so it takes over an hour to get there. And she’s a lesbian.
Well, you know whenever you and I would try to hit on women in bars, and they’d blow us off, and then we’d tell each other they were probably gay. It’s like that. Except this time it’s true.
She was looking for a husband so she can appear to be straight. And you know, it sounded crazy to me at first, but I’m actually thinking about doing it.
Look, Howard, you’re in a relationship. You know you have to make compromises.
It’s a great deal. We both get our parents off our backs. I don’t have to come home to an empty apartment every night, plus, once I’m married, I can finally eat carbs again and let myself go.
Because this one wants to marry me. I might never find another one who does.
I can’t believe your attitude. I thought you were in favour of gay people getting married.
Do you hear how homophobic you sound?
This is a treat, what brings you guys by?
What, you told her?
So, while I’m waiting for this mysterious perfect match, who may or may not exist, I’m supposed to just be alone.
Oh, my goodness. Aren’t you the cutest little Yorkie ever? You got him for me?
I think we already have. Thank you guys so much. Let’s see if you fit in my man purse.
I don’t mean to burst your bubble, dude, but those penile enlargement pills do not work.
Why?
Oh, boy, Sheldon’s going to freak out.
That’s really nice of you, Howard.
That’s incredible. Oh, here, break out the math.
Are you still going to tell him about you-know-who?
Three times. He begged the Fox network not to cancel Firefly. He begged the TNT network to cancel Babylon 5. And when he got food poisoning at the Rose Bowl Parade, he begged a deity he doesn’t believe in to end his life quickly.
You can make him do anything you want.
Well, don’t be too mean.
I wouldn’t mind a glass.
Bring him to his bony knees.
Wow, that’s amazing.
I thought he might be a little more excited.
Okay, uh, I’d pick swan because, uh, the resulting hybrid would have the advanced industrial civilization of a human and the long graceful neck I’ve always dreamed of having.
He got us again.
Anyway, if it’s okay with you, we should talk about Howard’s bachelor party.
I’ve been doing some research on strippers. One agency I spoke to, said I could get us a great price if we’re flexible on age range and number of limbs.
You don’t want strippers? You’re the king of strippers. The one club in North Hollywood named a pole after you.
Maybe we can go up to Napa Valley. They’ve got that wine train.
Anyway, it’s a beautiful time of year. Uh, you travel through the vineyards. There’s a tasting on board. And all the wild flowers are in bloom. It’s magic.
Hey, everybody! The bachelor boy has arrived! For he’s a jolly good fellow…
May I have your attention, please? We are hear tonight to celebrate the upcoming nuptials of my best friend Howard Wolowitz.
Does anyone have any words they’d like to say about our man of the evening?
Yeah, to Howard. Um, uh, who’s next?
Hear, hear.
Okay, uh, anybody else? Huh? No? Okay, it all comes down to me, the best man. Ooh! This grasshopper is kicking my ass-hopper. Okay, when I first came to this country, I-I didn’t know how to behave or how to dress, or what was cool, I was pretty lonely. But then I met Howard, and suddenly, my life changed, because we could be lonely together. This man became my whole world.
I’m not done, but thank you. I think back to all the good times we had, like, uh, when we went camping and spent that night telling each other all our secrets. I told him I’m addicted to pedicures and he told me he lost his virginity to his cousin.
Oh, oh, yeah, and then there was the time when Leonard and I took Howard to Las Vegas and paid a hooker to pretend she was Jewish and that she wanted his little kosher pickle. Of all the Howard humping hookers stories, that one’s my favourite!
Oh, oh, what about that tubby girl in the Sailor Moon costume at Comic-con?
The only threesome I’ve ever had in my life, and I’m proud to say it was with this man right here.
Oh, oh, don’t get me wrong, nothing happened with me and Howard. There was about 200 pounds of Sailor Moon between us.
You know, we’re not that far from my apartment. If you stop the car, I can walk from here.
Seriously, you don’t even have to stop the car. Anything under ten miles an hour and I can combat-roll into the street.
Thank you, Bernadette.
Dude, I am so sorry.
I’ve got the phone number of the tubby girl from Comic-Con.
All right. More Sailor Moon for me.
Well, that wasn’t as entertaining as when he rents bowling shoes, but it was right up there.
When you come back to Earth in a Soyuz capsule, you free-fall from space at 500 miles per hour, and the only thing that slows you down is a little parachute that pops out right before you crash into the ground. And the whole thing was designed by the same brilliant minds who were unable to capture Rocky and Bullwinkle.
You weren’t?
Oh, please. I don’t remember the episode of Star Trek where the guy never goes to space and brags about it in a tuxedo store.
You’re nervous? I’ve been stress-eating for four days. Look at me. I’m wearing my fat pants.
From that happy young couple over there with all the tattoos. Beautiful story, they’re in rival drug gangs, and they’re getting married. Shh, no one can know.
Where did he pop the question? What did you say?
Well, I know how to make it special.
Yes, you made that brutally clear to me. What I was going to suggest is if that you’re willing to wait until Sunday morning, the Google satellite will be over Pasadena. You can have a wedding photograph from space.
I keep telling you, if I wasn’t an astrophysicist, I would have been a party planner. It was always a coin flip.
Oh, thanks, man.
What, we’re ready when I say we’re ready. Uh-du-du-du, ooh, okay, now we’re ready.
Penny.
Howard and Bernadette, the five of us stand before you as your friends and newly ordained ministers.
Guys, when I look at the two of you starting your lives together, it fills my heart, It fills my, heart, okay, I’m going to need a minute.
I believe you two have prepared vows?
Me, too.
Right now, Howard’s staring down at our planet like a tiny Jewish Greek god. Zeusowitz.
I wonder what he’s doing right this very second.
Peering through his telescope at the birth of the cosmos.
Hey, guys.
I’m all for it.
Hey, uh, if you guys are free tonight, I heard about a spa where you soak your feet n a pool full of little fish that eat all the dead skin right off them. I don’t need to tell you in Los Angeles, sandal season is year round.
Oh, okay. Sounds like it’s me and you, Sheldon. How about we sic some guppies on those puppies?
Oh, okay. I’ll just go home and be alone. Which is cool. I eat alone, I sleep alone, I cry alone, so, cool.
Really? I can come? Thanks.
Yoo-hoo! Over here!
Sorry I started without you. I’m a little nervous. It’s been a long time since I’ve been on a date.
You should go to my girl. She’ll knock out those sideburns for free.
You know, Amy, I don’t even think you and I have had a real conversation. Let’s use tonight to get to know each other a little better. You start.
I don’t understand.
It’s your anniversary? Oh, my God, I had no idea. Amy, please, let me make this right.
My pleasure. Waiter? A bottle of champagne and three glasses. Oh, boy, isn’t this romantic?
Hello-lo-lo.
I was, but it’s their anniversary and I didn’t want to be a third wheel, so I figured I’d come over here and hang out with you and Penny on your date.
Sweet!
You know, I’m growing to like American football.
Well, it’s not the balls-to-the-wall action of badminton or cricket, but hey, what is?
No, thank you.
Oh, I’m having the nicest time. You guys are like family to me. You know that, right?
What? Why?
Oh pish on your issues. You guys are fine. Yes, you hit some bumps along the way. I mean, Penny, you’ve always known how this man has felt about you, but you made him grovel for affection.
Now, don’t blame yourself. He was a groveller from way back. But the point is, the two of you got past it. And, Leonard, you go and propose to this poor girl in the middle of sex? That was some weak tea, dude.
Yeah, no. But yet, here you two are, still together. And that’s even after you and I had our crazy naked night.
I’m just saying that after everything you’ve been through, you get to look into each other’s eyes and say “I love you.” And that’s beautiful.
Oh, Penny. That’s ridiculous. You know you love him. You, you look him in the eyes and you say it.
Oh come on, you know you want to say it. Say it. Say you love him. Say it!
I really thought she would say it.
Hey, Stuart.
Oh, I’m sorry. I’ll leave.
You sure?
All right. Great.
What are you drinking?
Perfect for the night I’m having. Thank you.
Amen to that. Sometimes I pour a little chardonnay into my dog’s water bowl.
She’s kind of a mean drunk, but what are you gonna do?
Cheers.
Sure. Mmm. Bossa nova. You listen to that with your hips as well as your ears.
Oh. Something about latin music just makes me feel like I’m on a white sand beach in Rio.
I should go.
Uh, thank you for the drink.
Hey, Stuart.
Do you want to hang out tomorrow night, maybe grab a bite to eat or catch a late movie?
No problem. My treat. I’ll swing by after work.
Okay.
Bye, buddy!
Hey, Stuart, come on in.
What’s the big deal? You guys are bringing your girlfriends. I didn’t want to sit by myself.
Focused Locust.
So, what are you guys doing later? Stuart and I were thinking of going out for a drink.
‘Cause that’s what we do.
In case you didn’t follow that, I’m the coffee.
Uh, yeah, last night. He kept making me drop pencils for him. I got uncomfortable. Hey, Sheldon, hope you’re hungry, they’re serving macaroni and… che-ee-ee-ese.
Hey, you already got a girlfriend. I call dibs.
Yeah, well, I love her.
Has your, uh, assistant said anything about me?
I’m in her head. Let the dance begin.
Howard’s capsule should be re-entering the atmosphere any minute.
The Fantastic Four reunited.
We’re not kicking him out. Stuart and I have become good friends.
Okay, the NASA Web site says Howard’s final descent has begun.
Oh, my God, you’re back. Oh, look at you. You, you look like you grew.
Oh, uh, come in, come in. Oh, I, uh, I didn’t think I was going to get to see you until tomorrow.
Wait, your, your mother is sleeping with your dentist?
So you’re wandering all around by yourself? That’s not the kind of hero’s welcome an astronaut should come home to.
Just until he gets back on his feet, which are looking pretty good in the boots I bought him for his birthday.
Oh, yeah, we hang out all the time.
It’s like we both had these holes in our lives, but now we fill each other’s holes.
Which part?
Oh, Howard, it’s still our thing. Come with us, we’ll, we’ll get you a scalped ticket.
We’ll switch. You’ll come sit with me after intermission.
Okay, uh, will I get to see you tomorrow?
Hey, Stuart, I see you’re getting ready for your Halloween party.
Would you like me to help? I do have a certain je ne sais quois when it comes to soirees.
You know, you don’t worry about money. I’ll take care of everything.
Yeah, you’ll love it. Ain’t no party like a Koothra-party.
Before I forget, I’d like your opinion on the menus I’ve prepared for the Halloween party. The theme is food that goes bump in the night.
On Sesame seed Bunzillas.
It’s funny because bread sounds like dead.
Ooh, Hallow-weenies! That’s a good one. They’ll pair nicely with my Draculoni and Cheese. How do I do it?
So, I thought the photo booth for the party could either be creepy like a mummy’s tomb, or they also have the Tardis from Doctor Who.
Do you have a preference?
Oh, by the way, can I borrow your bullwhip and fedora?
I was thinking of dressing up as Indiana Jones’ mocha-skinned love child. Indian Jones.
What’s wrong with you?
Oh, Howard, I’ve got a party to plan. Don’t make me pull it out of you.
No.
It’s called being nice.
Can you believe Stuart’s walking around taking credit for this party?
What do you mean who cares? Look at what I pulled off here. The DJ’s on fire, there’s a Tardis photo booth in the back room, and, oh, my God, the food. Stuart wanted Kraft Draculoni and cheese.
Is this about the space thing again?
Try to keep up, Howard, I’m killing it.
You’re welcome, ladies.
Dude! I was about to Bollywood this bitch.
I’m not finishing your sentence. You pulled the plug on my funk.
I think the next time I have to speak to a call centre in India, I’m going to try using an American accent.
Because when I use my regular voice, I feel like I’m making fun of them.
Dude, my accent is brilliant. Hey, my snow-white American friends, let’s put some cow meat on the barbecue and eat it until we’re all obese.
Sheldon, do I really sound like that?
Sheldon, you okay?
The guy’s a genius. Maybe you weren’t challenging enough for him.
All right, hotshot, let’s hear your Indian.
Okay, yeah, that’s pretty good.
It’ll be okay.
Yeah, but if he’s a sore loser, maybe you’re better off without him.
So don’t do it.
Then don’t do it.
Wow. An end of an era.
When did you figure out you were allergic to nuts?
What are you drawing over there?
He probably just goes to the bathroom.
It’s sad that you know that.
Twenty minutes a day, completely unaccounted for.
Ooh, this is exciting. Like one of my classic murder mystery dinner parties.
It was tapenade and you guys suck.
Are you sure? They turn off the lights, and it’s like a cute little laser show that poops all over the place.
We just told you.
I don’t know, I’m torn. I want to know where he’s going, but now I kind of want to play with the bunny.
Boy, what I wouldn’t give to get her out of those pants and into something a little more stylish.
I think it’s an old storage room.
Well, he’s not doing twenty-minute abs, because if he were, he would have way better abs. Can you hear anything?
I’m listening.
I can’t do anything right for you, can I?
He is kind of a weirdo. Maybe he’s got Leonard Nimoy chained up in there. Or Bill Gates. Or Stephen Hawking.
Howard, please, you can’t treat the man differently just because he’s disabled. That’s not okay.
Look at us, sneaking around in the middle of the night like a couple of cat burglars.
I don’t want to be a ninja, I want to be a cat burglar.
No, we both have to be the same thing. Okay, we’re ninjas.
But next time, we’ll be cat burglars.
Are you sure?
When did you learn how to pick locks?
How did that work out?
Hold on, hold on.
Sheldon is a very smart man, and he obviously wants to keep this a secret.
What if it’s booby-trapped?
Great, what’s your pl…
Yeah. Huh. Forty-three? What the hell does that mean?
Maybe. It’s a prime number. Encryption systems are built on prime numbers.
He’s always been very cagey about what he puts in his egg salad to make it so tasty.
Really? Well, oh, okay, one mystery solved.
Come on, we’re smart guys. We can figure this out.
It’s the atomic number for technetium.
Do you think he’s building a bomb?
Ooh, this could be something. forty-three is the number of calories in half a cup of fat-free yoghurt.
I’m sorry. We can’t all eat whatever we want and still stay thin. Wait, in the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, isn’t forty-three the answer to the question of life, the universe,and everything?
Hey, hey. Feelings.
Yeah, me, too. We’ve got more important things to do. Who cares what stupid forty-three means?
Let’s go home. You want to get something to eat?
What the balls is forty-three?
That’s good quality video.
How did you get your hands on that?
Oh, my God, here he comes. This is it.
I don’t know.
Holy crap!
Aah! It’s eating his face!
Sheldon, we’re really sorry.
And what does forty-three mean?
Yeah, well, I know how to make your egg salad now.
They are, too.
No, you’re displaying a shocking ignorance of the subject matter. Mummies and zombies are the exact same thing.
That’s called a fashion choice.
Congratulations. Does it have that new car smell?
Why do you have a parking spot? You don’t have a car. You don’t even drive.
Okay, here’s another one: If a zombie bites a vampire, and the vampire bites a human, does the human become a vampire or a zombie? Or a zompire?
I didn’t pick up on that. That’s a nice touch.
Hey, got a minute?
Calm down. Howard has something he wants to say to you.
Howard, that’s not how we practiced it.
Just say it.
an we change the subject? Spiders give me the jeebie-jeebies.
I know, but that sounds anti-Semitic. Anyway, I was thinking we could have a little film festival tonight. The theme, movies that killed their franchises.
Miss Congeniality 2: Armed and Fabulous. I mean, you know a movie’s bad when my homegirl Sandy B can’t save it.
What about you, Sheldon? Do you have any plans tonight?
If you don’t want to look foolish doing something, you should practice. Do you know how many Beef Wellingtons I made by myself before I invited you guys over? I’ll give you a hint. You can see them here, here and here.
No. But if you catch anything, I know how to steam it in banana leaves.
You got this, buddy.
You can do it.
Mine just took me to his gynecology office. I got so bored, I’d put vaginal lubricant on the bottom of my shoes and pretend I was ice-skating.
Yeah, okay, Howard wins.
So, listen, I know we talked about getting a bite to eat in Silver Lake, and then seeing the Christmas lights in Griffith Park, but Leonard’s talking about a big D and D game at his place.
Oh, man, the first monster I see, I’m gonna sneak up behind him, whip out my wand, and shoot my magic all over his ass.
No, screw that noise, I’m going in. Hang on, Santa, I’m coming for you.
But, a cannon? Am I really out of the game?
Wait, doesn’t anyone have a rod of resurrection? Because if you’ve got one, I need it bad. Get in here with your rod and give it to me.
Uh, wait, can I come with you? My character died.
Ooh! Girls’ night, girls’ night! Ooh! Ooh!
Can we get another bottle of champagne for the table? Don’t worry. It’s my treat.
My pleasure, nothing makes me happier than the chance to spoil a lady. Just ask my dog. My vet says if I give her any more foie gras, she’s going to die of gout.
No, no, no, I’m fine.
Stop it. You’re ruining girls’ night.
That’s sweet of you. But what can you do to help?
Okay. Well, a couple of things. Don’t tell them I come from money. I want them to love me for me. They must be insanely hot. Like, nines or tens.
Okay, an eight is acceptable if she’s willing to bring another eight to the hot tub.
In a New Delhi minute.
Great. I bought her a couple of drinks, and she gave me her e-mail address.
What?
Why can’t I find someone? I’m smart, I’ve got a cool job, and my naturally bronzed complexion means I can pull off mustard yellow in a way most guys can’t.
No, it’s not. She was too beautiful for me.
It’s true. I’m always attracted to women I can’t have. I do it all the time. I did the same thing with the two of you.
Well, uh, there was a time when I had a thing for Penny, and I thought she was into me, too, because she got drunk and naked and climbed into bed with me. But apparently I misread those signals.
That was before Penny. I make it a rule to only fall for one of my friends’ girlfriends at a time. I’m very old-fashioned that way.
No, not really.
Not that I can think of.
Nope. I guess the heart wants what the heart wants. Or in this case, doesn’t, I mean, at all. What?
Amy, I’m really sorry. I didn’t mean to upset you.
I understand. In seventh grade, I played Spin the Bottle and it landed on Alina Shankar. She said if I came near her, she would break the bottle and cut me.
Sometimes I get so lonely, I sit on my left hand until it goes numb, then I put it in my right hand and pretend I’m holding hands with another person.
It’s kind of nice to talk to someone who understands what it feels like to be alone.
But you’re not alone anymore. Now you’ve got Sheldon.
Thank you. I hope she’s half as lovely and amazing as you are.
Damn it.
Now that I know she doesn’t like me, I’m kind of into her.
I did the research. Tony the Tiger, Dig’em the Frog, Cap’n Crunch, Toucan Sam, Count Chocula, Trix the Rabbit, Snap, Crackle and Pop. Not one cereal mascot is a girl. It’s a total breakfast sausage fest.
Almost. Franken Berry, Boo Berry, Sugar Bear and the Honey Nut Cheerio bee, I believe his name is Buzz.
How could you do that to me? You know I’ve been working it with Alex for weeks.
I talk with my eyes.
Oh, my God. You’re loving this.
I both hate you and want to be you. This is Ryan Gosling all over again.
Leonard stole my woman, and he knew full well I was only six to eight months away from making my move.
Your assistant is totally hitting on this jerk and he loves it.
I say you tell Alex your heart belongs to Penny, I provide her a shoulder to cry on, and then roughly half a year later I give it to her good.
Huh. That is so strange. Human Resources wants to talk to me tomorrow. Could you stop licking your ass for two minutes? I have a problem here.
How else am I supposed to talk to the Human Resources lady?
I did. The guy at the liquor store said this stuff tastes great in coffee.
I feel like I’ve been called down to the principal’s office. Although I wouldn’t mind if Brown Sugar suspended me. From a sex swing. This may have been a mistake.
Well, this is all your fault.
If you weren’t screwing around with Sheldon’s assistant, none of this would be happening.
Oh, of course not. She was just sniffing around your goods because she was hunting for truffles.
Yeah, yeah, me, too. I didn’t do anything.
Howard built a sex robot.
That is so cool.
You know, we’re not that far from Vazquez Rocks.
Great idea. I haven’t had a carbohydrate in two weeks. These cheekbones need to be in front of a camera before I eat a pretzel and they’re gone.
And we’re blending, and we’re blending, and we’re done.
I say we begin with a classic Star Trek fight scene.
Phasers on the Borg! Charlie’s Angels.
Now let’s do some sexy glamour shots. I’ll set the mood. Oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, Yeah, nice one, oontz, oontz. That’s right. Oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz, oontz…
Stop!
I’ll call 911. What, oh, no, my phone is in my other pants.
What is wrong with people? Why don’t they stop?
Wool pants in the desert. I feel like I’ve got poached testicles.
Insurance is gonna buy you a new car. It’s not gonna de-funk my junk.
And about three hundred dollars worth of makeup, so this thief could look like anyone right now.
It, it is. It’s not just comic books. They’ve got action figures, toys, a Tron-themed dance party.
Great. We can still make it to Comic-Con.
Don’t be like that. Come on, Howard, talk to him.
Fine, then I guess it’s two against two. How do we decide?
What? What about the mission? You said we were a real-life landing party.
Okay. Did we at least rent the car from Enterprise? Get it? Enterprise? Screw you. That’s funny.
Are they actually arguing about comic books?
If it’s an alternate dimension, sounds like a job for a landing party.
So, I found this Web site where you send them pictures, they sculpt your head and make an action figure out of you. How awesome is that?
Yeah, you can pick your wardrobe. You can even choose your accessories.
What do you think, Sheldon? Want an action figure that looks just like you?
No.
They’re here. Our action figures have arrived. This is the best five hundred dollars I’ve ever spent.
Say hello to an exact scale model of me. Oh, I’m not dark chocolate. I’m melt-in-your-mouth caramel.
This sucks.
You! Always bet on black.
It’s only a waste of money if we don’t play with them. He’s right, dawg.
You know, there is a way we can get action figures to look exactly like us.
Two words, 3-D printer. Wait, maybe it’s three words. No, hang on. Okay, one word, a letter and a number and maybe a hyphen. 3-D printer.
Of course you have. They’re an engineer’s dream. Anything you can design, a 3-D printer can make out of plastic.
Oh, come on. You deserve one. You’ve worked hard to find a woman who makes a lot of money.
Oh, true. They’re practically giving them away. You know, in exchange for money.
Not to mention Malibu Koothrappali and his totally bitchin’ dream house.
Really, smart guy? Where’s he supposed to park his sweet little Corvette?
I think this thing was made in China.
Ooh, I, I think it’s done. Oh, it worked. We printed a whistle.
And we made it in only three hours. Sounds just like store-bought.
Oh, I wish I was in better shape.
Oh, okay, great. Now I can look like Val Kilmer as Batman instead of Val Kilmer as he looks today.
Are you sure you want to do this? Give up your half of the 3-D printer?
Wow, that’s harsh.
Aren’t you gonna eat lunch?
Here you go.
What, you don’t say thank you?
Well, then, I should tell you I broke the wheel and the handle. So, is everyone from Bernadette’s company going to Vegas?
Cool. Did she discover a cure for something?
Is there a good anal leakage?
Way to make lemonade. You know, from around the corner where fudge is made.
Sure.
Dumped her? What, did he use a forklift? Sorry. There’s nothing funny about morbid obesity.
Dude, I’m a single man. Saturday night is my party night.
I don’t know, maybe drive down to Hollywood, hit a few hot spots, see if I can get lucky.
What time should I be at your mother’s?
No, thank you, Mrs. Wolowitz. As it is, I’m going to have to carry my stomach out of here like I’m a fireman rescuing an infant.
Well, I, I really couldn’t. But, uh, I’ve had a lovely time eating your brisket and hearing about the things you’ve had removed from your body over the years. Didn’t know you could have a cyst inside another cyst.
That would be lovely. Thank you. Mrs. Wolowitz, uh, are you okay?
I, uh, I suppose I could stay for some dessert.
Sure.
Hello?
Okay, I guess.
Actually, I’m still here.
Yeah. Uh, after dinner, we watched a rerun of Rockford Files, and then she opened a bottle of, uh, cream sherry, and the next thing I know, she was tucking me into your bed.
Mm-hmm. How do you sleep in these things? Silk pajamas on satin sheets? I slid out of the bed, like, three times.
Oh, boy. Breakfast.
But I have a cream sherry hangover and I smell blintzes.
Oh, Howard, stop.
You’re being silly. I can leave whenever I want.
They’re on the chair, right over… Oy vey.
You were right. I can’t get out of here.
I’m trapped. My clothes have been in the laundry all day, and she hid my keys. I think they might be in her bra, because she jingles when she walks. What do I do?
Come on, Howard, help me.
Oh, my God. She’s not gonna bathe me, is she?
But, Howard…
Everything okay?
Hey, Stuart, you got anything going on for Valentine’s Day?
Oh, well, I was going to spend the night with my special little lady, but, uh, she got worms, and then I had to take her to the vet.
Well, uh, how about you keep the store open late, and we throw a party for all the people who don’t have dates?
Yeah, the theme will be that the greatest love a man can have is the love he has with himself.
It’s nice that all the people who are lonely on Valentine’s Day can come here tonight and be together.
Except on a date with anybody.
You know, you and I have so much fun hanging out. If you were a girl, all our problems would be solved.
Oh, yeah, think about it. We’d hang out, we’d read comic books, we’d see movies. It’d be like the best relationship ever.
Then I’d take you home, slip off your little black dress and just pile-drive you into oblivion.
We’re glad you could make it.
What is it about this holiday that makes people so unhappy?
I got to tell you, we’ve got to stop beating ourselves up like this. Excuse me, everybody. Can I have your attention, please? We’re all here tonight because we have no one to be with. But that doesn’t make us mutants. The only mutants here are in these comic books. We’ve got to stop defining our self-worth by whether or not we’re in a relationship. You know what I see when I look around? I see a room full of great people. So let’s give ourselves a break. We are a community, and as long as we have each other, we’re never truly alone.
You really think so?
Thank you. Uh, would you like to, uh, get a cup, a cup of coffee or…?
Later, losers!
So then I went to Cambridge, which was wonderful not only because it’s a good school but because it totally looks like Hogwarts. That’s where I fell in love with astronomy, and now I’m an astrophysicist at Caltech, so I guess you could say, uh, Raj is my name and stars are my game. And rhyming is also my game. So, uh, two games. Uh, anyway, that, that’s enough about me. I want to hear everything about you.
I go to the bathroom, too. Sometimes more frequently than I care to admit. Oh, I’ve had it checked out, it’s nothing. Hmm. This is going great. Mmm, can I have a refill on my chai tea? Yes, I have a good feeling about this. I should have bought condoms.
What?
I was humiliated by yet another woman.
No. I took her for coffee, and she snuck out the bathroom window to get away from me.
I went and looked. It was a high and tiny window. She must have been very motivated.
Why not? With online shopping and overnight delivery, I can get anything I want. Look, I just ordered a case of Dinty Moore beef stew and two live lobsters on Amazon.
You’re wasting your time. Just please, leave me alone.
I don’t want to celebrate.
Why would I want her number? I don’t want anything to do with this woman.
No, you don’t get it. I want nothing to do with any woman. My heart is stone. From now on, I’m a monk. I renounce all worldly pleasures. Except for lobster. And garlic butter.
You’re, you’re a good friend for trying to help, but, I’ve made my choice.
See you. No, wait, take her number. I don’t want the temptation.
I must be strong so I don’t stray from my true purpose, the study of the universe.
Wait! Give me the number! Give me the number! Give me the number!
Just a sec. Oh, who says just a sec? I hate myself. Hello.
Uh, would you like to come in?
Oh.
Wait. Can you at least tell me what went wrong? It’s okay. I can take anything. Unless it’s something I did, or said, or am. ‘Cause those are, like, my buttons.
Really? Then what were you doing at the comic book store that night?
Yeah, me neither.
I lied. I love them. I only said that so you’d go out with me.
That’s great. I’m broken, too.
Oh, I totally am. If it wasn’t for this beer, I couldn’t even talk to you right now. I’m a wreck. There are many things seriously wrong with me. And not quirks, either. Like, diagnosable psychological problems. Maybe brain damage.
Go out with me on one date, and I promise you, you’ll see.
You won’t regret it. I’m the most pathetic guy you’ve ever met. And that, boys and girls, is how it’s done.
Thanks again for letting me crash girls’ night.
Anyway, I was hoping I could, uh, pick your brains a little. I’m supposed to take Lucy out Friday and I need a killer first date.
Uh, Lucy has some, uh, social anxiety issues. Maybe we could start with something simpler.
Mm, Disneyland? I don’t know. With all the crowds and the weird characters walking around, just reminds me too much of India.
Excuse me, I thought we were trying to solve my problem?
I am a man who can’t talk to women, trying to figure out how to go on a romantic date with a girl who suffers from such crippling social anxiety she can’t be around other people.
Excuse me, I’m meeting a girl here. It’s kind of our first date.
She and I are both a little awkward in social situations, so this seemed like a good idea.
No, you can’t join us. Just go, go climb back up whatever beanstalk you came down from.
I’m counting that as foreplay.
These spring rolls are amazing. Good job, Bernadette.
Oh, well, I’m sure they wouldn’t have tasted nearly as good if I hadn’t tried your food first.
Dude, you made the right choice coming to me for help with this party.
Well, put your mind at ease. I’m here to make sure your dinner party kicks Howard’s dinner party’s ass. Now, the first thing we need is a theme. I’m thinking, ah, turn-of-the-century Moulin Rouge.
So your theme is I saw a rerun of Mad Men and bought some crab puffs from Trader Joe’s? Hate to miss that.
Well, come on, we won’t tell anyone.
Yeah, it’s nice to get dressed up once in a while.
Of course.
Shame on all of you.
Couldn’t leave him one friend, could you?
If you want, we could tell you.
Okay, um, It was a card for your 18th birthday. Inside it said, Happy birthday, Howard. I love you. Dad. Oh, and it was a Far Side card, the one where the frog has its tongue stuck to the underside of an airplane. Thinks it’s a fly. Silly frog. So funny.
Yeah,
I agree. That is, if you’ve never been to or heard of a party before.
Only if you’re this jellyfish which periodically reverts to a mass of undifferentiated protoplasm.
Well, I believe people do their best work when they feel safe and secure.
Yeah, me neither. It should be about the work. And if I can’t get tenure, I’d like to see you or Sheldon get it.
It would be nice to have the increased income. Stop taking money from my parents.
You have no idea. They buy me a new BMW for my birthday but can I get seat warmers? No. Rajesh, if you want a warm butt, you’re gonna have to pay for it yourself. Well, maybe I will, old man.
And I will return to New Delhi in triumph atop a bejeweled white elephant. And you know what will be on that elephant’s back? A seat warmer. No, Father, you may not have a ride.
Good day, Mrs. Davis. This is Dr. Rajesh Koothrappali from the astrophysics department. Don’t be alarmed, I’m not really in space. Anyhoo, I’d like to take this opportunity to tell you about myself, so sit back, relax and enjoy the following 90-minute video.
Born in New Delhi, the third son of an itinerant gynecologist, I showed early signs of genius. At the age of five I discovered a celestial object which later turned out to be the moon.
Where have you been?
I don’t know.
Come on, Daddy. All the other scientists have seat warmers. This is so humiliating. I’ve got to get tenure. Okay, let’s meet halfway. How about I cut my cleaning lady down to twice a week? Looks like we’re both going to be living like animals.
Unbelievable. You have some nerve showing up here just to schmooze with the tenure committee.
Excuse me. I’m here to pay my respects to Professor Tupperware, or whatever his name is.
I have a thick accent. You don’t know what I said.
You two should be ashamed of yourselves. Using women to advance your cause with sexuality, and whatever Amy plans on doing.
Yes.
Well, now it’s biguous. What are you gonna do about it?
You’re right. This is beneath me. Lie your mother was last night.
Yeah, screw it. I’m going in.
Whatever. I can see my little princess while I’m at work, right?
Wait, hold on. This is weird.
I was Googling that girl I’ve been dating, and I found her blog.
She said she recently went on a date with a guy named Roger? And he’s Indian? And he’s an astrophysicist, too?
Yes, Mummy was right. American girls are sexually voracious devils.
Oh. I always thought, if I had a white name, it would be Gavin.
No, no, I don’t know if I should. If she wanted me to know about her blog, she would’ve told me. It’s almost like I’m reading her diary.
No, this is creepy.
It’s not creepy. Don’t listen to him. Oh, look who’s got the sweetest kisses.
Do you think I’m feminine?
Thanks a lot.
I broke down, and I read Lucy’s blog, and in one of the entries she said, when we first met, I struck her as a little feminine.
I have to talk to her about this.
Well, that doesn’t seem fair.
No, it’s not. I’ve always thought that was unfair.
Why do you have to make everything so filthy? Why couldn’t you just say the blog is like her giving me the key to her heart?
I was quoting a man who knows a thing or two about women, Sir Elton John.
Uh, Lucy’s coming over. I need some advice.
Just tell me which one you think is more manly. This hockey jersey or this football jersey.
Good, black is more slimming. Oh, that’s her. I got to go be butch. Toodles. Hey.
Come in.
Yeah, well, I wouldn’t get too close. If I give the right command in German, she’ll rip your face off.
Thanks. I love hockey.
Not Brian Boitano, that’s for sure. How’s your burrito?
Probably because I didn’t read the instructions. No wrapper’s going to tell me what to do. Unless his name is Jay-Z.
What do you mean?
I don’t know. Maybe it’s all those steroids I’ve been taking.
Wait, wait. I, I found your blog here you wrote about me.
No kidding. You didn’t make it easy to find. I spent hours digging around online. For the record, you have excellent credit scores. And your diabetic aunt seems to be adjusting to her new leg just fine.
You called me feminine. And I, I wanted you to think I was more manly.
I do have a pretty balls-to-the-wall moisturising regimen.
Yeah.
No. Bought this at the Staples Center when I went to see Taylor Swift.
Hey, I just found out I have to be at the telescope lab all weekend. Any chance you and Bernadette could take care of my dog?
Why don’t you put your mother in a home?
Thank you.
Uncle Howard. Cinnamon’s here for her sleepover party.
And it would be my pleasure to be her num-num.
It’s very simple. For breakfast, she has an egg-white frittata. Feel free to give her a choice of home fries or an English muffin, but not both. We’re watching our weight. Uh, for dinner, something simple, a veal chop, some scampi, whatever you like.
Yes. Also, don’t forget to close the toilet or she’ll drink out of it.
Hello? What do you mean, you found my dog? She’s with my friends. Is she okay? Oh, thank you. Uh, just text me your address, I’m on my way. Oh, and if she’s hungry, go ahead and feed her. But do not give her anything starchy. She’s having risotto for dinner.
Hmm. Interesting. Did they take a walk down Liars’ Lane?
A lane frequented by liars. Like you, you big liar.
Well, I trusted you, and you let me down. The poor thing’s been shaking for hours.
Yes. I picked her up, and then we both went for massages to try and calm down. And then we got Pinkberry.
Well, I, I thought about…
Sorry. I, I just…
Anything can happen.
I got my new bloodthirsty savage warrior who will lay waste to all who stand before him. And I had a sensible salad for lunch, so I can eat all the pizza I want.
I’m actually glad Lucy had to work tonight. Saved me the awkward conversation about how I was gonna be hanging with my bros.
Painfully so. We have this rule on the phone that if no one talks for three minutes, you can just hang up. So into her.
Hey, come on, guys, focus. Um, uh, oh, mighty Nicolas Cage tree, we thank you for your warning, but we are brave warriors, and nothing short of death will keep us from our goal. Oh, Lucy’s free after all. See ya.
You’re right, I should finish the game. I take my plus-one long sword, stab myself in the face with it. I’m dead, I’ve got a date with a girl. Bye.
I’m very happy you were able to hang out tonight.
Not that it’s up to you to make me happy. Uh, well, unless you find neediness sexy. In which case, you’re about to have dinner with the hottest man on the planet.
Really?
I, uh, I’m sorry to put you through that.
What else have you been thinking about doing?
I like your bangs.
What else?
Mm, yeah. Those are both toughies.
How are your crab cakes?
That’s great.
No, no. Uh, you’ve always wanted to send your food back in a restaurant, here’s your chance.
Don’t be ridiculous. Waiter?
Hold on. Isn’t there something else you wanted to tell him?
Don’t be silly. Just tell him.
Uh, yeah, sorry. She’s just a little shy. The first time we met, she was so nervous, she climbed out a bathroom window to get away from me.
Lucy?
You don’t know me very well, but each time you crawl out a bathroom window to escape my company, it chips away at my masculinity.
Why would you leave like that?
Okay, if I upset you, then why didn’t you just say something?
Yeah, well, I like you a lot, and that’s scary for me. Mostly because you’re a proven flight risk.
Well, uh, for one thing, you have bigger emotional problems than I do, and I find that very attractive in a woman. I, I don’t know. I just, I think you’re wonderful.
So, anyway, last night on video chat, I spent, like, twenty minutes just staring into Lucy’s eyes.
It was until I realized the screen had frozen. Still one of my top three dates of all time.
I’d love that, but she’s not really comfortable around people.
Hey, don’t discourage him. This is a fantastic opportunity.
If you look carefully at Venus, you should be able to see the International Space Station pass by.
Yeah. He brought me back a T-shirt that said My Friend Went to the Space Station and All I Got Was This Lousy T-Shirt
Nope. It’s exactly as lousy as advertised. Speaking of friends, they have been asking to meet you. I was thinking maybe we could all hang out sometime?
Let’s see. Six. That’s pretty cool, I have six friends. Kind of like Sinatra.
Okay, how about you just dip your toe in and meet one of them?
Of course.
Okay. I have a request to make.
The only person allowed inside this head is Dr. Phil. Anyway, I, I spoke to my new lady friend about meeting you all, and she thought it would be easier for her to start with just one.
Actually, I was thinking Leonard.
You are, but you’ve got kind of a big personality, with your flashy clothes and your Woody Allen swagger.
Good idea. Bernadette?
Well, you’re very pretty. That could be intimidating to another woman.
Why? So you can make jokes about cutting open my brain?
Oh, Lucy, you don’t have to answer that. Don’t put her on the spot. She hates that. Am I right? Tell her how much you hate being put on the spot. Go ahead, tell her.
What the? Are you crazy? You can’t talk about social anxiety to someone who has social anxiety. It makes them socially anxious!
Don’t call her my girlfriend. We haven’t discussed whether or not we’re girlfriend or boyfriend yet. Now that it’s out there, are you my girlfriend? By the way, if you say no, I’ll never be happy again. Not to put you on the spot.
We might as well go ahead and eat. She’s not coming back anytime soon.
I want to apologize for Amy last night. She was completely out of line. Are you, are you not speaking to me or did the screen freeze again?
Okay. I know. It was me. I, I pushed too hard. I’m sorry.
You know, I, I’ve been thinking that maybe meeting somebody one-on-one is too intense, so Friday night, my friends are having a party.
A little one. It’s, it’s a farewell for Leonard, so all the attention will be on him. If you wear something brown and sit on the couch, they won’t even know you’re there.
Oh, please?
Come on. Don’t make me beg. And I’m from India, so I know how to do it.
Yeah, thank you! This means a lot to me. My friends are like my family. Unless you don’t like them, in which case, they’re dead to me.
She is. She’s just running a little late. You know how it is, girls always fussing about their hair, their makeup. She’ll be here. Just give it a rest, okay?
Uh, go ahead. Read it.
Excuse me.
Hang on.
That’s, that’s very nice of you. Uh, come, come. Come on in.
No.
No. It’s my fault. You know, I finally found someone who was right for me, and I, I drove her away.
Penny, I, I miss her already.
What’s like, what is wrong with me? Why, why can’t I ever have love?
No, I, I won’t. I’m, I’m unlovable.
No, it’s not. I haven’t had a drink since last night.
I am. And now I’m crying for a whole different reason!
So I guess what I’m saying is I get where Lucy’s coming from.
Uh, no, water’s fine. Anyhow, I’ve been thinking about it a lot and, and I totally see why Lucy did what she did. I pushed too hard. But you know what? If I back off and give her enough space, maybe there’s still a future for us. Yeah, the funny thing about life is that, you know, sometimes…
… but then it turns good again, and that means it’s better than if it had never been bad for a while. I know that now, thing’s aren’t good, they are in fact very very bad but at least my heart is starting to heal. Slowly but surely. And oh how I cried. It was like a little, uh, thunderstorm on my face. But I’m a man, okay? So I need to pull myself together, pick up a pen and get it all out in my journal. I mean, it’s not all bad, right? Having my heart broken has allowed me to finally speak in front of you, so, you know, a silver lining….
I think you’d be pleased to hear that this morning in the parking garage I saw this oil stain on the ground that was shaped just like my ex-girlfriend, Lucy, and I didn’t get upset at all.
Well, you should be, ’cause she was looking good.
Is that true?
How can I meet someone new when everywhere I look, I see Lucy’s face? Tell me you don’t see her smile in the crust of this chicken pot pie.
You think you’re so cool because your wife is a person?
You would do that for me?
Thanks. Oh, Sheldon, since Amy’s out of town, would you like to join us?
Wow, your work on jellyfish neural nets sounds so interesting.
I will. You can download my paper on the Van Allen Belts from the university server as well.
All right.
Well, if you like dry, factual statements interspersed with painful moments of silence, it was bananas.
Oh, great. There go my chances of being sexually harassed.
That’s so much better than the old, ugly ones.
You know, I recently read a fascinating article on infidelity among penguins.
So if the fact that your husband left you makes you feel unattractive, just remember, penguins get cheated on, and they’re adorable.
Uh, excuse me, Mrs. Davis?
I’d like to apologize for being insensitive. And for possibly making penguins seem like jerks, because 99% of them are stand-up guys.
You know, you, you and I, you and I have a lot in common.
Oh, yes, I, I too am in the throes of heartbreak. Okay, fine, I’ll tell you about it.
Yeah, I can relate to being a single parent. I have a dog.
Mrs. Davis, I, uh, I must confess, I came here tonight in a futile attempt to pick up some lonely postdoc, but instead I got to connect with you at a human level. That’s a much better evening. You’re a lovely person.
No, no, no, that would be crazy. I mean, if I were hitting on you, you’d know it ’cause you’d feel uncomfortable and a little sad for me.
Good night.
And then some. I think we had a moment.
Who died and made you king of moments?
There was.
I will slowly seduce her until she falls helpless into my bed, hungry for the pleasure only I can give her.
No, not a thing.
Well, I’ve been quite enjoying that. It combines all the superhero fun of Spider-Man with all the body-switching shenanigans of Freaky Friday. Both versions, original and Lohan.
Hey, what’s your problem?
Why are you on a diet?
Well, we’ve all seen your mom. That Butterball turkey was bound to come home to roost.
No problem. Ooh, you made little sandwiches.
Nice. So, mmm. What’s up?
Well, it’s kind of hard to tell.
I’m not sure. Um, wait. Jump up and down, let’s see if they jiggle. Uh, no, I, I still can’t tell, uh, oh, you know what? Okay, uh, give me some of this.
Do you want my help or not?
Okay, yup. See, see, that, that looks like, that looks like they could be bigger. But you know, I bet, I bet when I do it, mine do the same thing.
Hmm. Uh, let me see something.
Oh. Sorry, sorry, uh, okay. I mean, yeah, maybe.
You know, but, but they’re very firm, so you’ve got that going for you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, very perky.
Yay.
A little loud, dude.
Uh, it wasn’t anything weird. It was just to see how big they were.
Uh, can I just say, I’ve missed all of us hanging out together.
So, couldn’t help but notice none of you RSVP’d to my murder mystery dinner party.
No, you weren’t because it was a week ago and nobody came. So, if you want to solve the mystery of who stabbed Koothrappali in the back with the weapon of indifference, it was all of you.
Don’t worry, I can take a hint. No more murder mystery parties.
Because I’ve got something even better planned.
Just hear me out. I’m going to make you guys a scavenger hunt like they have at M.I.T.
So, uh, who’s in?
Okay, everybody. Who’s ready for a scavenger hunt? Somewhere in the city of Pasadena, I’ve hidden a golden coin. You will be faced with a total of ten puzzles. Each p… each, each puzzle will lead you to the location of the next, the last of which will lead you to the coin. The first team that finds it wins.
Any questions?
Okay, guys, go ahead and divide yourselves into teams of two.
Oh, hey, thanks for letting me use the comic book store as part of the scavenger hunt.
Oh, congratulations. You’re the first team to arrive.
Your next puzzle is a riddle. And who better to give it to you than The Riddler?
Good riddle, huh?
I invited you to my murder mystery party.
Oh.
Oh, yes, Leonard. Yes, it was.
Yes, exactly. Where is the coin? Why don’t you look in your pockets? I slipped them in there earlier today.
Don’t you see? When we’re all having fun together, we’re already winners. Oh, look. See? Even I’m a winner.
Well, I thought… Come on, I didn’t want anyone to feel bad at the end of the game. And some of those puzzles were really hard and I didn’t know who was gonna get Penny.
Okay, okay, that-that came out wrong, but you have to admit, you all had a wonderful time.
I just wanted to do something beautiful.
Which celebrity would you say I look like the most?
Stuart and I are putting dating profiles online, and it’s one of the questions. And thank you, I’d kill for that woman’s bone structure.
Wait, how can, how can anyone ruin Raiders? It’s perfect.
Well, when someone looks at your dating profile, the first thing they see is your picture. I just want to make sure you look fun and full of life and not like a body they just pulled out of the river. All right, here we go, and smile. Okay, uh-uh, that one’s in the bank. How about this? Turn away, and then turn back into it. But when you do, imagine the camera is the girl you want to meet.
Okay, uh, let’s try it again. Uh, but this time, pretend the girl you want to meet doesn’t want to hurt you.
Come on. One more time. Yeah, it’s, it’s a little blurry, but I think that works in your favour. Do you want a beer?
Almost. Oh, what did you put as the one-word description of yourself?
My parents’ money. Uh, what did you put for your best feature?
Come on, dude, you’re being too hard on yourself. You’ve got a lot of good stuff going on.
Well, okay, you’re a, you’re a talented artist, you own your own business.
Okay, well, can we imply that you’re well-endowed?
Okay, now you’re talking like a winner!
Three, two, one.
Attention all shoppers, my business is open for business!
Oh, cool, it tells you when someone’s reading your profile. Jenny309. I hope that’s not her weight.
What? Another one. You know, it, it’s weird. When they’re reading your profile, does it, does it make you feel exposed? Like they see you naked?
In the last two hours, 162 women have read our profiles. How many of them have sent us messages?
Yes.
Dude, this is, this is brutal.
This is the worst. If we’re gonna get shot down, we might as well just go to a bar and do it old school.
Yeah, anything is better than this.
Hello.
I was wrong. This is worse.
Like a hero.
I think it could be romantic. You know, my parents met at his place of work.
I know. What started as a pap smear turned into a date. Which turned into her working there, which turned into marriage, which then turned into hatred, which continues to this day. Two-Eyed Cyclops.
Hold on. We do that all the time. You and I work together and play together.
His only options here are to fake a heart attack or have a real one.
It wasn’t a pyjama party. It was just a couple of bros hanging out, giggling, eating cookie dough and watching Princess Bride.
As you wish.
Amy.
Oh, uh, on the off chance that Bernadette doesn’t call back and apologize, how do you feel about Mexican food for dinner tonight?
That’s ’cause you always fill up on chips.
You want a TUMS?
No, if I buy those, I just go through them like candy.
Thanks.
It is awesome. Uh, you should probably go after her.
Why is that great news?
That is so beautiful.
Of course. I’d be happy to shred it on my ax.
Fine. I will melt her heart. And her face.
Yeah, I read your paper online. That technique for creating a new heavy element is inspired.
You called the right person. I believe I have the perfect romantic evening for you to give Leonard.
As I’m sure you’re aware, the quickest way to a man’s heart is through his…
Oh. You poor thing. You have one arrow in your quiver, and you just can’t use it. Fortunately, another pathway to a man’s heart is through his stomach.
Well, I’ve always had this fantasy that involves dancing. The sexual chemistry between my partner and me is electric. But boy, oh, boy, does my father not approve until he sees us in the big dance competition.
Oh, oh, uh, you could, uh, stand outside his window with a boom box in the air.
Look, I’m a lonely guy, I watch a lot of movies. Look, Penny, if you truly want to be romantic, it needs to come from you.
Well, you’ve probably never had to do this stuff ’cause you’re young and beautiful and men have always thrown themselves at you.
Got it. Now, uh, I have a question about the song. I was thinking at some point I could bust out a little rap.
Come on, come on, you haven’t even heard it yet. Leonard, give me a beat.
Oh, please?
It will be. I don’t call anyone a ho, and the only time I use the phrase my bitch, I’m referring to you.
Wait, I don’t understand. They didn’t find the element?
Oh, that’s a big deal.
Actually, I’m busy.
There’s a new sports bar over on Colorado Ave…
Yeah.
You think they came up with that? They were going to drink beer and play darts.
Excuse me. I happen to be very comfortable with my masculinity.
Yeah, it’s nothing to cry about.
Penny, how’s it going over there?
Okay, let me have it. Let’s hear all the Raj is a girl jokes.
Thank you.
Oh, I think we’re doing just fine, thank you.
Ah, I’m making a necklace for my mom.
Yeah, she and my dad are going through a bit of a rough patch, so I wanted to do something to let her know I was thinking about her.
They’re just having a little trouble communicating. My dad says it’s because the sound of my mom’s voice makes him want to tear his ears off and sew them over his eyes so he never has to look at her again.
I didn’t know you were coming again.
No, thanks.
My name is Howard. I can make your hair into diamonds. My mom is morbidly obese. Everybody love me.
I’ll tell you where it’s coming from. All you do is make fun of me for coming to girls’ night and now you’re here ruining it for everyone.
But this isn’t about the jewellery. This is about me having a place where I can open up about my feelings.
There are just some things that I feel more comfortable sharing with the girls, because they won’t make fun of me or and call me names, or ask me if my Koothrapanties are in a bunch.
Yeah, well, sometimes your jokes hurt.
Thank you. It wasn’t easy.
Well, I was feeling bad about how I acted the other night so I made you a little something.
Well, it was fun. I used some of the jewellery techniques you taught us. It’s a lightsabre belt buckle.
Oh gets better.
And that’s not even the best part. See? I have one, too. Check it out. You can wear yours and we can have little sword fights whenever we want.
Not even to sleep?
So, how are you gonna return the DVD if the store went out of business?
I don’t get it.
No. Oh, is he anything like, uh, Mun-Mun the Mongoose? He taught us not to play with cobras.
You had to be taught not to burn down the forest?
What is wrong with you, Penny? You ruined any chance I had of getting back with Lucy. Now she knows I’m a desperate mess instead of just being pretty sure. It’s Lucy. She wants to meet for coffee. I love you, Penny.
Can I ask you guys a question? So, I’m seeing Lucy tomorrow night, and I’ve never hung out with someone who broke up with me. How do you do it?
Why is the key always confidence? How come it’s never love handles and flop sweat?
He’s right. But in my defence, if we could survive that, we could survive anything.
Well, can I say she looks nice?
Can I tell her I miss her?
Oh, can I show her an oil painting I made of us surrounded by our children and grandchildren?
Good, good. ‘Cause no matter how hard I try, I cannot get the twins to look alike.
Hello. Oh, it’s so good to see you.
Please, sit. I, uh, I got you a cappuccino. I remembered it was your favourite. I also got crumb cake, but I remembered it was my favourite and I ate it. Anyway, uh, how are you?
Well, and I ate all the crumb cake. We both made mistakes.
I’m so happy you asked me here, and I hope we can hang out again sometime. You know, as friends, lovemaking partners, whatever.
I think I know the answer to this, but just to be clear, it’s not me, right?
This is all your fault, I should’ve listened to Mun-Mun because I’ve been playing with a cobra and her name is Penny. Why are you so cruel? Do you enjoy my pain?
I love you, Penny.
Wow. You’re even prettier than Penny said. I can’t believe a girl like you doesn’t have a boyfriend.
I don’t believe you, you’re lying to me.
Oh, it’s okay. I have no morals and I’m desperately lonely. I’ll be the other man if you want a little something-something on the side.
It’s horrible. Why would you push a cow over? They’re sacred.
Hey, an animal can be both sacred and delicious.
I’m in.
Ah, no problem. It wouldn’t be Thanksgiving without an Indian providing the food. Uh, now, where does your mom keep the Crisco?
Uh, yeah, can you, uh, reach that, uh, gravy boat up there?
Great. That makes one of you. Okay, we have a lot to do and not much time to do it. Bernadette, you’re on corn, gravy and yam detail. Amy, you’re on rolls, cranberries and making sure Bernadette stays away from the marshmallows. That’s right, I see you. Okay, if you have any questions, I’ll be over here basting my ass off. Focus is key.
Hey, guys, I’m trying to cook in here.
No, no, speak up. I’m about to use the blender, and I don’t want to miss anything.
My, my. The plot, like my gravy, thickens.
Wonder what she saw in that guy.
Hmm. Wonder what she sees in Leonard.
Stir the gravy.
Well, I couldn’t have done it without my two favourite girls. Martha Stewart and Rachael Ray.
No, I’m gonna brush Cinnamon’s teeth.
And the other half licking my face. That’s why I’m brushing her teeth.
Howard, the poor thing just got home from work. Let me get you a glass of wine. I’ll cook dinner.
Don’t be silly. Sit. You look like you’ve had a long day.
Please, this is my way of thanking you for letting me stay here. Now, tell us all about your day.
Hey, when you got home today complaining that you felt sick from eating too many jelly beans, did I tell you how to fix it? No. I said, aw, that must hurt, and I rubbed your belly.
All I’m saying is there’s a time to just listen.
There’s also a time to stop eating too many jelly beans. And it’s when you’re ten.
Good morning, everybody. I picked up coffee while I was out. Bernadette, here’s your soy peppermint mocha.
Oh, my pleasure, and don’t worry about your presentation today. You’re gonna be great.
He loves you.
I’m just being a good house guest.
Oh, come on, I brought you one, too.
That’s why I got you hot chocolate.
Howard, listen to me. You’re a great husband. Yes, your listening skills could use some work. But it’s amazing how far you’ve come given that you’re an only child raised by an over-protective mom.
Hang on.
Nonsense. You need a little fattening up. You’ve been looking too skinny lately.
Hey, hey, do you hear yourselves? Let’s just, you know, all calm down and take a step back.
Oh, what did I do?
Look, I’m sorry you’re upset with me, but I just have to say it’s nice to see the two of you on the same page.
I can’t believe they’re still married. Oh, no, I forgot Cinnamon’s toothbrush at Howard’s. I guess you’re sharing with Daddy again.
Sheldon, I think you might find the support you’re looking for if you realize that relationships are a give and take. She can only be there for you as much as you are for her.
And, Amy, you need to be patient with Sheldon, instead of pressuring him to accept intimacy on your terms.
Wait, so Star Wars and Star Trek characters can go on the same branch?
Yeah, if your mom could see her little Bar Mitzvah boy right now, she’d have a heart attack.
Hey.
You know, many people believe that home births are better because the mother is in a warm, comfortable environment where she can be nurtured by loved ones.
If you were having Sheldon’s baby would you really want him in the room?
I’ve never seen it.
Maybe this time he’s going to do it.
You didn’t ask her out, but that was a lot of sounds.
Sounds about right.
Open wide, here comes the happy train.
Oh. Hang on. You got a, you got a little something. Ah.
Oh, man, that is so us.
My father’s a gynaecologist, I think I can handle it. And, now, I’m gay.
Keep going.
Ew.
At least Leonard, Howard and I would have always been friends.
Yeah, you didn’t have to buy groceries ’cause you were breast-feeding.
Yeah, I was wrong. But I do think you and I would have had a great time.
Come on, Leonard, dinner.
You’d have no girlfriend to see you naked, you’d try to fill the void with food, and I’m an enabler who once deep-fried a pancake.
I think there’s still half a cake from breakfast.
Stuart!
What are you doing?
Yeah, but why are you fat?
Congrats.
Put up or shut up. You make it, I’ll drink it.
Ooh, Mark Harmon, he’s a dreamboat.
So I read a study that says a man with a dog is three times more likely to get a woman’s phone number.
I don’t see why not.
Can we bring anything?
I almost met someone last night, but I blew it. I was walking Cinnamon and this girl introduced herself, but she was so cute I panicked and said, wouldn’t it be easier if instead of talking we could just sniff each other’s butts?
Are possums cute?
You mean like fatties and uggos?
I’m sure you were great.
No. No pretty girls. The point is to talk to regular people and work our way up to pretty girls.
That depends. On any level, do you think she’s hot?
Yeah, she seems friendly and easy to… never mind, she’s gone. You know, maybe talking to people is too hard.
I don’t know. They’re dressed very stylishly. They’re probably stuck-up. This is ridiculous. The next person that walks by, no matter who it is, they’re the one. We’re gonna die here.
That’s a mirror.
Sorry.
Uh, excuse me.
Uh, do, do you like being a mall security guard?
Okay, nice talking to you.
Well, we were just on our way to lunch and wanted to see if you’d like to join.
Hey. Good to see you.
He brought you a pretty rock.
Are you sure? He’s tall, pale and awkward. That sounds like your type.
Yeah, grow up, Howard. God.
And does Sheldon know you’re dating Sheldon?
Yeah, knock it off, Howard.
Well, do you support this?
Prepare your uterus for his gigantic offspring?
Padma Kapur, Neha Chowdury.
Megan Pincus.
Oh, who was that girl from our Starbucks?
Yes. Arlene. She wrote no way on both our cappuccinos.
I guess, uh, I’d like her to sit me down, look me in the eye and say, I was wrong. I love you. And then maybe she could touch me in a special way.
He’ll be so upset. He’ll probably climb up the Empire State Building and start swatting at planes.
Sure. We’ve both been in his shoes. We’ll let him down with compassion and respect.
So we tell him she’s a lesbian, right?
We’re sorry Amy didn’t want to go.
Oh, it all comes down to this.
Oh, I have to go to the bathroom so bad.
And I told you I get diaper rash.
Anyone in?
Uh, what number in line are you?
Oh, they only have Thursday and Sunday passes left.
So that’s it? Everything’s sold out?
We would have been the angry green belles of the masquerade ball.
Hey, since Sheldon’s not going to Comic-Con, maybe we could find a cool trio to dress up as.
How are you gonna get James Earl Jones?
Does he sound like a criminal?
You know, did he say things like, youse guys, or, listen here, see?
I’m just saying, we don’t know who this guy is. What if he wants to steal our money or our kidneys, or make a suit outof our skins?
I don’t know. Maybe ’cause dark doesn’t show the stains?
Okay, so, I’m on a Comic-Con message board, and there’s a post from a guy where he says he got caught using someone else’s badge, and Sheldon was right, he did get charged with petty theft. Guys, if I go to jail dressed as the Human Torch, that might send the wrong message.
Do it.
That’s ’cause we’re the good guys.
You know I struggle with Batman.
Okay, I’ll be a badass, but only if you pinky-swear to be one, too.
What about that little cup they give you?
Are you impressed by that?
Yeah, me, too.
It is. I feel alive.
Maybe slapped with a fine.
Uh, maybe it’ll come up when I apply for citizenship. Oh, crap, what if it comes up when I apply for citizenship?
He’s gonna be here any second, what should we do?
I thought you were a badass.
Since you two are gonna be around for Valentine’s, would you mind watching Cinnamon?
I don’t have plans which is why I booked time on the big telescope that night.
Except I’ll be alone.
Thank you. Oh, and I’d like for at least one of us to see some action, so if you guys happen to have sex, it’s cool if she stays in the room.
Oh, my God, Cinnamon, are you okay? I can’t believe you two. You do whatever it takes to save her life. If she needs new organs, I’ll buy any dog necessary and scrap them for parts.
Owner, father, soul mate, and if anything happens to her, your worst nightmare.
Okay. Okay, thank you. Oh, if she’s scared, you can sing to her. She likes Katy Perry. Oh, but don’t do Firework, that gets her all riled up.
As if Valentine’s Day wasn’t bad enough, you try to kill my dog? And with cheap chocolate, no less?
Oh, is Cinnamon gonna be okay?
All right. Uh, would, would it be okay for me to see her? We’re usually in bed by now, and I want her to know that I’m here. Yes, we sleep together, and sometimes we spoon.
Thank you.
Oh, yeah?
She’s gonna be okay; they’re gonna let me take her home.
Oh. Thank you for taking such good care of my little girl.
There you go. All cozy wozy. Here, let’s see what the doctor says to keep an eye out for. Hmm. Rajesh, I was dreading Valentine’s Day. Thank you for spending it with me. Yvette. Cinnamon, she-she gave me her phone number. If I’d known it was that easy, I would have considered poisoning you months ago. Oh, what should I say? Oh, I know. I’ll point out her name’s Yvette, and that she’s a vet. That’s hysterical. She’ll love it.
Oh, actually that’s a Van Dyke. A goatee is just hair on the chin.
You mean a moo-stache?
Ha-ha, very funny. Make fun of the foreign guy. For your information, there are four times as many Indians as there are Americans, so the way we say it is right.
Moo-stache.
Here, you can have your seat.
Oh, sure, I sit on the floor for years, no one cares. The pretty white girl’s there ten seconds, and suddenly we’re all running to IKEA.
Magic wand TV remote?
Did Bernadette think it was cool?
Oh, uh, let me try. Uh, channelis changeroni. This might be my second favorite brown magic wand.
Uh, off. And on. And the Oprah Network. This is so much better than watching TV like a muggle.
What’s going on? Oh. Wait. On. And off. What’s going on?
Wow. What did you tell them?
A second trip to space, I’ll miss you.
And I just want you to know, I’m happy to look in on Bernadette while you’re gone.
And if anything were to happen to you, we will name our first born son Howard. I’m just kidding. We’ll name him Dalib, after my grandfather.
It’s pretty exciting that NASA wants to send Howard back up.
Course.
Not at all. He’s forgotten how miserable he was the entire time he was up there. It’s like me in those moments when I miss India.
Why me?
That’s the dynamic, I’m the fun one, you’re the buzzkill.
Do you think this is cool?
Aha.
Um, okay. First off, know that we all love you and cherish you.
Oh, of course.
Like how women often forget the pain of childbirth.
And how you threw up in zero gravity, and it floated back in your mouth. And you threw up again. And so on and so on.
Howard, I’m so sorry your blood pressure was off the charts.
Screw that! I sat on the floor for seven years. I’m staying right here.
Fine. But no more making fun of how I say tings.
Thank you. That was the closest I’ve come to sex in, like, two years.
You’re only making it seem more real for me.
Can we please talk about something other than my depressing love life?
Is that a real book? I would totally read that book.
While showering topless, 16 minutes after brief side butt during a pillow fight with her sorority sisters.
If she did, it would be amazing. That woman can do no wrong.
Ha-a-a. Still funny.
I was there. It was funny.
Actually, it’s for both of us. Last night, I watched West Side Story, and I’m a little freaked out by street gangs.
I don’t appreciate your sarcasm, but we’ve still got two blocks to go, so I’ll put up with it.
No one was writing me back, so I stopped checking my profile.
It has been a while since I got my prostate checked.
What? You’ve kissed, like, once in three years.
Amy, I could use some help.
I thought about what you said last night, and I went back on the dating Web site and I was looking at this girl’s profile. She’s amazing.
And judging by her lack of Adam’s apple, she’s been female her entire life. I like that in a woman.
Well, I was up all night trying to write to her, but I wanted to run it by you first.
Emily, your face is like a precious dew-kissed flower.
I know. Powerful stuff, huh?
Okay, I’m getting some mixed messages here.
Yes. Where I can be jealous of the cup touching your ruby lips. Or you just write it for me.
I don’t want you to pretend to be me. You can be like my, uh, online wingman. Like if we met her at a bar and you talked me up.
Just tell her what I’m really like. And, if you think it’ll help, that you saw me changing once and my package reminded you of the muscular tail of a jaguar. Use your own words.
Teams are fun.
But I’m always on Howard’s team. We’re best friends. The kind who finish each others…
Do that. See?
Maybe I can go with you guys to Houston?
Plane tickets? Yeah.
Stop that? Okay.
Hey, you busy?
Have you heard back from Emily?
Great. And?
I give you one simple thing to do, contact a complete stranger and make her fall in love with me, and you blow it.
I’m not too shy and passive. You write her back and tell her I said that. You know, when you have a second.
What’s happening tomorrow night?
What?
I find a girl I like, and you’re stealing her?
Your words fall like acid rain on the wounded petals of my heart.
Hello, Emily.
Amy told me you were concerned that I might be too passive and shy. Let me ask you something. Would a passive guy barge in here to look you in the eye and say, hey, dew-kissed flower, what’s up?
Uh, okay, that’s a separate issue. Let’s put a pin in that and just focus on the passive thing.
Not my best first date. Yeah, but not my worst, either.
He’s in Texas, he’ll never know.
Have you heard from Howard?
Hey, Stuart!
Good. Sheldon’s out of town, so we can do whatever we want. We even ordered from the Thai place he doesn’t like.
Stuart? Are you okay?
Stuart?
Well, it’s too late.
He’s been murdered by someone in this room.
Welcome to another classic Koothrappali murder mystery dinner.
You can’t leave. You’re a suspect in the mysterious murder of Stuart Bloom.
Lame characters with silly ac…, what kind of actress are you?
Thank you.
Actually, you’re all just gonna be yourselves.
Very good, Bernadette. You are a regular Byomkesh Bakshi.
Or is Sherlock Holmes the English Byomkesh Bakshi?
Great, everyone’s a Byomkesh Bakshi. Now, here are some secret facts about each of you, including whether you are the murderer. Throughout the game, feel free to ask each other questions to uncover clues.
Any question but that.
I can’t tell you that. But perhaps the killer dropped a fun and imaginative clue somewhere in the apartment.
Well, unlike that, my games are much more fun.
Well, I guess it goes back to when I was a fat kid in India, and didn’t have any friends.
Yeah, I was. I was 200 pounds by the time I was in middle school. Kids were mean. Cows may be sacred there, but it doesn’t help if you look like one. Anyway, I was pretty lonely, so I had to make up my own stories and games, and I promised myself if I ever made any friends that, that I would play those games with them.
No, I was svelte as a gazelle. A gazelle blessed with a flair for storytelling.
From the future? How fun and imaginative.
Correct.
Does the smart-ass know that Terminator was actually ripped off from an Outer Limits script called Demon With a Glass Hand, by Harlan Ellison?
Okay, murder suspects, Leonard has found the time machine the killer must’ve used. You’re all inside it, and we hurtle through the very fabric of time. And welcome to 20 years in the future. Hey, you guys just time-travelled. Stop looking so bored.
Fine, just try not to look too alive.
Perhaps this will help. Here are some facts about yourselves in the future that might contain a clue.
Oh, no. In this game, as your careers both took off, you drifted apart. Kind of like how future me lost touch with you guys after I became boy toy for the wrinkled, but still flexible, Madonna.
Okay, okay, guys, new back stories. Uh, Penny and Leonard, you two lovebirds are super successful and living in New York. Uh, you’re an actress, you’re a professor and you have three beautiful kids.
Can we please get back to the game?
Oh, come on.
I’m not pouting, I’m brooding. Which is how sexy men pout.
You’re just saying that.
Thank you. I thought it was inspired.
And it’s done.
Hey. Emily, right?
I, I don’t know if you remember me.
Yes, Rajesh Koothrappali. Look, uh, I just, I wanted to say I’m sorry. Okay? You were, like, the coolest person I ever found online, and I got really nervous and I, I just blew it.
Well, give me a chance, you don’t even know me.
Ah, really? Thank you. Fate has given me a rare second chance, and I swear to Vishnu I’m not gonna blow it. Or normal words followed by a charming smile.
And then after coffee, we went for a walk and she told me she always thought people from India were exotic and mysterious. So, with my mouth, I said, we’re just like anybody else, but with my eyes, I said, straight up, Red, hop on my flying carpet.
Yeah, we have plans this weekend. And if it’s a clear night, I’m gonna lay some romantic astronomy on her.
I can’t do that to Leonard. This is some powerful panty-dropping stuff.
Okay. Penny, two of the brightest stars in the night sky are Altair and Vega. And it is said they were deeply in love but forever separated by the celestial river of the Milky Way.
It is. But once a year, on the seventh day of the seventh month, Vega cries so hard that all the magpies in the world fly up and create a bridge with their wings so the two lovers can be together for a single night of passion.
Uh, Xbox One.
Oh, my goodness.
I just got an e-mail from my ex-girlfriend Lucy. She misses me and wants to get together.
What am I supposed to do? How am I supposed to choose between Emily and Lucy?
I can’t date two women at once. Zero women, that’s my sweet spot.
But what if one of them asks me what I was up to the night before and I was with the other one? Then, what, do I lie?
Any news on your co-worker who’s in the hospital?
Oh, no.
Did he help you make a decision about the movie?
As a matter of fact, I did. I’ve spent so many years living in fear, saying no to new experiences, but from now on, I’m gonna say yes, yes to love, yes to adventure, yes to life. Whatever it may be, the answer’s going to be yes.
You look, you look really pretty tonight.
Thank you. Thanks, thanks. I’m sorry. I can’t do this. My, my ex-girlfriend e-mailed me, and I’m seeing her Saturday, And I’m glad you like it, it’s from J. Crew.
My friends told me it was okay to see more than one person at a time, but it, it feels like I’m being deceitful.
No. I, I have no idea. What would you do?
Well, to be honest, we only went on four dates, hugged twice, kissed once, and there was a handshake loaded with sexual innuendo.
Yeah.
Are you, are you sure? Because this is the part of the night where I’ve said something stupid and the girl usually leaves.
Yeah, but now you make me wonder what’s wrong with you.
Really? Because I’m dating two women is basically the only cool thing I can say about myself.
I know. Being an astrophysicist right now is like being a rock star.
Yeah, literally, none of it.
Are you kidding me? This may be the biggest scientific breakthrough of our lifetime. How can you, as a theoretical physicist, not care about this?
Um, kind of hit a bump. When I was honest and told Emily she wasn’t the only person I was seeing, it went great. So I tried the same thing with Lucy.
She had mixed feelings. But when I said, Emily was cool with it. Emily’s the best. Why can’t you
At least now I can focus all my energies on just one girl.
Why the rush? She isn’t going anywhere.
You’re really going to do this?
It’s going to be okay.
Oh, okay, great. But if we’re really gonna do a double date, then we have to go over some ground rules about Emily.
She’s very real.
See? This is exactly the kind of thing I’m worried about you saying in front of her.
You better be. No jokes about how close I am with my dog. Or the truth about how close I am with my dog.
No jokes about the year I took ballet.
God, you never listen.
Hey, guys.
Emily, these are my good friends, Howard and Bernadette. Guys, this is Emily.
Since when do you go to spin class?
Mmm, and you know what that means. Someone’s skin’s about to be softer than ever.
Oh, uh, Howard was an astronaut. Maybe that’s where you saw him.
Wh, what happened?
Get it? Because you clogged up her bathroom like a radioactive monster!
She’s scary, but it’s a cute scary.
No problem. How’s your mom feeling?
You know, when Cinnamon won’t take her medicine, I hide it in a piece of cheese.
I was thinking we could watch a DVD.
Actually, how do you feel about watching House of 1000 Corpses?
I do, but for some reason, Emily loves it and wants to watch it with me tomorrow, so I thought if I start with you first, then I could act cool about it with her.
Uh, so, you’ll watch it?
You’re a good friend. I owe you one.
Not that one.
Hey. Listen to this. Murder, cannibalism and satanic rituals are just a few of the thousand plus horrors that await.
You’re a good son. I don’t know how you do it.
All right, let’s get this over with. Ew, it’s got someone’s hair on it.
Okay. So, in the last 20 minutes, we’ve seen a crazy woman kissing a fetus in a jar. We’ve seen a guy cut in half and sewn to a fish.
On the bright side, she didn’t even notice the pill. Why does Emily like this stuff? Do you think there’s something psychologically wrong with her?
What do you mean?
I do like that the ex-boyfriend’s out of the picture.
I’m just gonna say it. That’s not okay. Why can’t I be in a relationship with a girl who likes The Sound of Music?
What?
Here we go, House of a 1,000 Corpses.
Actually, I have to tell you something. These kind of movies really aren’t my thing, so, last night, I watched it just to see what I was getting myself into.
And I have to be honest, I thought it was disturbing and weird, and it made me wonder what it says about someone who enjoys it.
Then, why do you watch these things?
Sure.
And play.
May the fourth be with you?
Hey, Penny. Happy Star Wars Day.
Can I make you breakfast? Admiral Ackbar’s Snack Bar is open for business.
And if you’re not in the mood for coffee I can always make you a Chai Tea-3PO.
Hey, uh, Sheldon, you want anything?
Before you go, at least let me pack you some Attack of the Scones for the road.
Ugh, let’s get this over with.
You know, I heard of this way of watching the movies called the Machete Order, where you watch Episodes IV and V, then skip Episode I, watch II and III as a flashback, and then finish with VI.
It was just a suggestion.
Wow.
Should we try to console him?
By staying here and watching the movie.
Mm, true. I do feel guilty about him.
Maybe we should see how he’s doing.
But after the cantina scene.
Hey, we can say it. You can’t.
Please hurry.
If she isn’t gonna use it, then why are we doing this?
All right. Now what?
Do you know how to set it up?
So she’s gonna be laid up for at least six weeks.
So the movie’s not as bad as you thought?
Thanks for inviting me after everyone else said no. Aren’t you gonna get 3-D glasses?
Is that a real thing?
Emily, Hey.
Uh, this is my friend, Sheldon. Sheldon, this is Emily.
Are you here alone?
What do you mean, not really?
Yeah, okay.
Uh-huh.
Yes.
Thanks for skipping the movie. I couldn’t sit in that theatre for two hours wondering about Emily and that guy.
You don’t have to make me anything.
Sorry, I left them in my turban.
Wouldn’t you be upset if you saw Amy out with someone else?
But you don’t have sex with her, either.
To be truthful, Emily and I haven’t dated that long, and we never agreed to be exclusive to each other.
No.
I don’t understand it. I’m a nice guy, I have a great job, I’m well-educated, come from a good family. Why don’t women want to be with me?
What? Don’t send me home. I can’t be alone right now.
What do you mean?
Eleven.
Eleven. Wait. Do I count the 200-pound Sailor Moon girl that Howard and I had a threesome with at Comic Con?
I’ll stick with eleven. She liked Howard better.
Maybe. I, I don’t know.It’s late, I should, I should go. Look, I do get what you’re saying. Instead of desperately clinging to any woman who will go out with me, I need to work on my fear of being alone.
Hey.
Of course. Please, come in.
Uh, look, you and I haven’t made any commitments to each other.
It’s okay.
Well, I mean, yeah, it freaked me out a little, but that’s my issue, not yours.
Thank you. Not just for being upset, but for believing that could happen.
Well, me, neither.
Okay. Please. So, uh, you, you have tattoos?
I don’t. I have a hole in my belly button that may or may not have been a piercing.
It’s a piercing. So, uh, how many tattoos?
It’s, uh, been a long time since I’ve seen a girl’s really not her shoulder.
But, uh, before I take my shirt off, I just need like ten minutes to do some crunches.
What up, guys?
And I thought me having sex with Emily was gonna be the big news.
Boy, I’m so hungry today. I wonder why?
You know what? That may be it. By the way, it isn’t like riding a bike. Like, I fell off a few times.
When I’m feeling low, I have sex with a girl. But that’s just me.
Dude, I’m so sorry.
We’re here for you, man. Whatever you need, okay?
Sure, of course. Oh, actually, Emily was gonna spend the night.
Well, I can’t take all the credit. She let me do it to her, but, uh, but I can always call her and cancel.
Thanks for the lift.
I’m having my windows untinted.
Got a hot girlfriend now. I want the haters to know.
Wow. How’s that Hater-Ade taste, bro? Hey, this isn’t the way to work.
I thought Stuart was looking after her.
How so?
Like us?
She feeds him out of her own mouth?
So are you worried because he’s replacing you as a son or are you worried because he’s becoming her lover?
Okay, okay. Although many older women lead vibrant, active…
I’d like to back you up, but it sounds like it was pretty precious.
It wouldn’t kill you to pick up the phone.
That is weird. I thought he was, like, 45.
I don’t know. I mean, she’s lonely. He needs a place to stay. I doubt there’s any funny business going on. And even if there was, who cares? They’re both adults.
You know what? You’re my best friend, and she’s in a bad marriage. I give you my blessing.
‘Cause that’s what little matzo balls do.
This is the part where you talk.
Hey, as long as the baby’s healthy.
But half-man, half-owl could fly…
So, I’ve been trying to come up with a cute couple’s nickname for me and Emily. What do you like better? Emippali or Koothrapemily?
Oh, well, her last name is Sweeney, and something just didn’t seem right about Koothrapeeney.
I don’t understand. Why is it bad that you have to teach?
You enjoy giving people grades.
Hey, Sheldon, I’m sorry.
Aw, you brought cookies for everyone?
What’s wrong with you?
Ask why not again, I’ve got an answer.
Is that right?
250 million years.
Why didn’t girls like us in high school?
You suck, Wolowitz.
I’m heckling you. It’s a beloved part of baseball.
You look like a jackass.
So you never played baseball as a kid, not even Little League?
Come on Howard, fire it in.
Yup.
Is it too late for him to cancel?
Mmm, I love how they put a waterfall at centre field. It really ties the whole stadium together.
Hey, guys.
We still on for tomorrow night?
Why would I lose friends just because I started dating someone?
You guys kiss and hold hands.
Look, I’m not the kind of guy who drops his friends just because he’s in a relationship.
Well, hey, you’re my dear friends. You’ll get a Christmas card for a couple of years, and then you’re dead to me.
Hey, guys.
Emily, you know almost everybody here.
And this is Leonard, this is Penny.
I told you she exists.
You know, he might not reopen. He didn’t get a lot of money from the insurance company.
So, we’d be, like, owners of a comic book store?
Ooh, maybe we could come up with a business plan to compete with this place.
Ooh, what if we got a van and drove around and picked kids up?
We are now.
Um, well, in my defence, I tell everybody.
We were having a conversation about past lovers.
Well, we were being honest. You would leave me out of the conversation with the next guy if you dumped Leonard?
Well, I would never leave you off my list, and not just because, without you, we’re playing fast and loose with the word list.
Great.
You, okay? It’s you. You’re, you’re next.
Hey.
Thanks for inviting us over.
Excuse me, can I say something? I just love both you guys, and I want you to get along. And when I say love I meant as a friend. And, uh, way too soon, right?
It was, and I may have made it seem like a bigger deal than I should have.
It’s true, you’re both gorgeous. Kind of says something about the man who could bed you both. You get why I’ve been alone most of my adult life.
I’m so glad we could work this all out.
Great.
I’m really disappointed we’re not gonna have our own comic book store.
And snacks.
Hey, I read that someone invented a way to convert your footsteps into electromagnetic energy so you can charge your cell phone while walking.
Easy. Sleeping with Penny.
Tricking Penny into getting engaged.
Ooh, we could have one of those retreats.
We could go up to Big Bear and get a house on the lake.
Nothing bad happens in The Lake House.
Hey.
Why not?
For your information, Emily is working tonight.
Ooh, this is exciting. We’re innovating. I feel like we’re in the Facebook movie.
Oh. It’s wonderful, and I swear I’m not saying that because Justin Timberlake is in it.
Cool. I’ll make the popcorn.
Boy, when you met Bernadette, the field of robotics really took a hit.
Hey, the future they show in Back to the Future II is only a year away. A lot of the things in that movie haven’t been invented yet.
Oh, I have an idea.
I’ll make the popcorn.
He’s right. Also, what kind of name is Biff? Sounds like when you pop open a can of Pillsbury dough. Biff.
Do you know if you look at Austria on a map it actually looks like a wiener?
Plus, this is where our minds are conditioned to focus on work.
Go online and look it up.
That’s nothing, dude. Go check out how hung Florida is.
That cannot be true.
Hey, it was match point.
Not getting to see who wins at pigeon ping-pong comes to mind.
And I really can’t let that happen or the girl who does my eyebrows will think I’ve been cheating on her.
Ooh, that is a lot of hair. Ow. And now I’m gonna hear it from Jenny.
No way. Not Bill Murray.
Huh. Bill Murray did get it wrong.
Yeah, sorry for clicking on that.
You know, the government funded the biggest experiment yet to detect dark matter.
You know, Sheldon, if we apply to be one of those teams, we could be on the ground floor of something big, not just for theoretical physics but for astrophysics as well.
Yup.
Hey, Sheldon, you busy?
Don’t they lay eggs on a rock?
So, I did a little research on what the conditions are like in the mines, and the guys might be right, sounds pretty rough down there. For starters, it’s very humid, and about a hundred degrees.
It’s also a live mine, so there’ll be dynamite explosions going off in the distance.
Oh, you have to be down there for 12 hours at a time.
Well, there’s no toilets, we’ll have to do our business in a bucket.
Look, I get it, but before we pass up on an incredible opportunity, I was thinking about when Howard was training to go to space, they put him in a simulated environment.
Exactly.
So where should we do it?
Uh, Sheldon…
Huh. All this time I never knew there were steam tunnels down here.
Did you get in?
This is gonna be so much more accurate than the steam room at the gym.
Or totally naked. I love Howard, but the dude needs a little shame.
We’re going to be fine.
I’m sweating already.
How hot is it?
Well, that’s what we wanted. This is as hot as the mines will be.
How you feeling?
Let’s set up the equipment. It’ll help take your mind off of it.
Do you know any mining songs?
It’s a little more bleak than I thought.
Getting kind of grim.
Okay. How ’bout a little Miley Cyrus next?
So, as Hannah Montana, Miley was a world-famous pop star. But then she would take off her wig and go to school like a normal girl. Which, I don’t have to tell you, at that age, is its own headache.
But you’re okay with Superman concealing his identity with a pair of glasses?
We should have asked her to get some Funyuns.
What if we brought them down with us?
Oh, this heat is brutal.
How’s that going?
Sheldon, if this is too much, we can stop.
You don’t have to bite my head off.
If you would just use the bucket, you’d be so much more comfortable.
Oh. Is it Amy?
Sheldon, you know what I think of when I’m scared? Voyager.
The space probe.
By the time I was born, Voyager 1’s mission was supposed to be over. It had seen Jupiter and Saturn and all their moons, but it kept going. When I left India for America, I was never more scared in my life. I had no idea what lay ahead. Whenever I feel that way, I think about how Voyager is still out there somewhere beyond our solar system, going further than anyone ever thought it could. Don’t leave. You can do this.
You call yourself a friend? I was trying to help you, and at the first sign of trouble you ran away, leaving me to fend off a family of rats. You’re a completely selfish human being and a, and a physical and a moral coward.
Really?
Oh, cool.
I would love to see your collection.
Preach.
Well, that didn’t go your way.
Hey, we’re going to Oliver’s house to see his collection. You want to go with us?
The gun from Hellboy?
How did you get it?
Oh, I was hoping for a juicy tidbit about Ron Perlman’s testicles.
Yeah, I’m not quite sure how to respond.
You think he bites?
You fooled me with that goat at the petting zoo. You will not fool me again.
Maybe he’s playing bingo with his mommy.
Okay, now you’re messing with me.
One ladder left.
And then went back to the home they share where they probably fell asleep in the matching pajamas she got them because they both just love penguins.
Like who?
Hey.
Oh, yeah, I got that Evite. Ever since I saw Pretty in Pink, I’ve wanted to go to an American prom. But then I saw Carrie, and I did not want to go to an American prom. But then I saw Never Been Kissed, and I’m back on the prom bandwagon. This prom thing’s been a real roller coaster.
Did you go to your prom?
How come you’re not shopping with Amy and Bernadette?
That sounds like a yes.
Ooh, I’ll, uh, text Stuart, let him know we’re close.
Hey, here comes Stuart and his date.
That’s Howard’s cousin that he had sex with.
It was our first date, there was an awkward silence. What was I supposed to say?
This is so messed up.
Okay. Here we go, say cheese. Iskip) Say cheese. Iskip) Say cousin. Iskip) Say…
Oh, so, my, uh, parents’ 40th anniversary’s coming up and I can’t think of a thing to get them.
Anyway, any ideas on a gift?
They used to like going to the Mumbai Symphony, but last year my mom thought they were phoning it in. Then my dad said based on their love life, she should know about phoning it in.
Well, they weren’t speaking at the time, so he had a servant say it to her. Oh, maybe I could make a gift for them. I know how much you guys love the coasters I made for you.
Dude, my parents just split up.
Uh, that was my dad on the phone. He moved out.
No, it’s fine. It’s not that big a deal. As long as they’re happy, I’m happy. And when I get to see them for the holidays, I’ll get to celebrate Diwali twice, one at each house. That’s double the Diwali.
I’m okay.
How can I be okay? I come from a broken home.
Hey. What brings you by?
I’m sorry. This is very sweet. Thanks.
Better. I guess the news just hit me a lot harder than I expected.
I think, over time, they started to resent each other, and instead of talking about the things that bothered them, they kept it bottled up, and the hate just grew.
Hey, guys. Sorry I am so late. I was on the phone with my mother.
Pretty good. She bought the book Eat, Pray, Love and used it to set my father’s Mercedes on fire. So, what’s up with you guys?
Oh, like you and I did at couples therapy.
You know, I thought cleaning out a dead professor’s office was gonna just be boring, but then I found his dentures and realized it’s also gross.
That’s rough.
I don’t know. This old pen kind of proves gravity. When I tilt it, her bathing suit falls right off.
Poor Roger Abbott.
Roger Abbott, Roger Abbott, Roger Abbott. Oh, my God, Leonard, I know he’s dead, but try it. It’s fun. Roger Abbott, Roger Abbott.
When stuff like this gets me down, you know what I like to do?
Wrong, smarty-pants. It’s Everything Is Awesome from The Lego Movie.
Maybe he didn’t know what to pair champagne with. Strawberries, caviar, oysters. All good choices. Yeah, that look right there is why people eat before they come to your parties.
Or we could talk to this guy he used to share an office with.
The doorman said this is the right building.
I was thinking it might be some sort of interstellar coordinate system, maybe an updated version of Hubble’s law. I keep seeing the number 90 repeating. That could be the angle of perturbation of a distant galaxy.
Does it work?
Well, he could have been hit by a bus. You don’t know.
You were his colleague. How did your research turn out? Great. Hey, this is the apartment you get when you win a Nobel.
Well, you could be very frugal. I’m getting a little tired of everybody’s sarcasm.
And we still don’t know who framed him.
Yeah, me, too.
Oh, well, that’s the best part.
Anyway, Dad’s gonna be here in town, so I won’t be able to do Christmas dinner this year.
That would be nice.
Amy, good luck getting these guys excited about a dinner with a theme. I gave up when no one cared about my Tom Hanks-giving.
You guys suck.
Can we please talk about anything else?
Dad.
There’s been a problem with an experiment. A bird got into the clean room.
Uh, no. You had a long flight. You stay here and relax.
Yup. Bye.
Hey, what’s going on?
Should have put it in the bag first.
Hey.
Okay.
Actually.
All I’m gonna say is you guys need to stop this right now. It. it’s bad enough that my parents are fighting, now I have to hear the two of you? And who cares who’s smarter? If it’s Leonard or me or, you know, it’s Christmas, let’s say it’s Howard.
No, you’re the one who let him in.
Come on.
Uh, you have to take the pin out.
What did you do?
Dude, it’s not breathing.
What do you mean, not again?
I’ll do it.
Don’t blow too hard. If you pop him, I will vomit.
It’s a Christmas miracle.
Someone should really close that loading door.
Well, that’s that. The room’s compromised. They’ll have to change all the filters, probably shut it down for weeks.
Yeah, just leave me out of it. You know if they come here and see crap everywhere, they’re just gonna blame the Indian guy.
Mmm. Amy, that pudding was delicious.
If you people think this is better than Tom Hanks-giving, you’re all crazy.
Oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God.
I can’t take it, dude.
No, I’m not okay. I feel like I’m gonna jump out of my skin.
I’m worried about the New Horizons space probe.
We hope. The signal has to travel over three billion miles. So it’s gonna be hours before we know if it even survived.
Space ice is no joke. I can’t even watch Frozen anymore.
Oh, another two hours to go. The wait is killing me.
Before you finish, is this a story about patience and waiting or just another reminder that you went to space?
Ugh, I feel like I’m gonna have a heart attack.
I can’t stop thinking about it.
I know.
Okay. If I make this shot in the trash can, the probe will have arrived in perfect working order.
Yes.
I didn’t crash it, okay? My playlist was too up-tempo, I got light-headed and I fell off. Okay. It all comes down to this.
What kind of scientist are you? Everyone knows you got to make two out of three.
Hey, uh, thanks for keeping me company.
If it’s okay with you, I’d like to go to temple.
I meant a Hindu temple.
Dude, that movie’s an imperialist fantasy that makes the followers of a beautiful and peaceful religion look like a bunch of bloodthirsty barbarians.
Yeah, it’s pretty great.
Why?
Religion is a very personal thing. I do go to temple, I just, I don’t talk about it.
So?
That is so offensive. Does everything you know about Hinduism come from Indiana Jones?
Well, lots of scientists believe in God. Okay? Newton, uh, Faraday, uh, Pascal, all were believers. Even Einstein was famous for attacking quantum theory on the grounds that God does not play dice with the universe.
Actually there’s no proof of that.
You see behind the fountain, that tower that looks like a pyramid? It’s called a Sikhara. It symbolizes the, the connection between the human and the divine.
All right. Shall we?
Like what?
Really? So every other place you’ve been, you thought this was fine?
Sorry. You’re right. I’m so stressed. But you know what, whenever I walk into that temple I realize that whatever happens, it’s okay. We’re all part of an immense pattern, and though we can’t understand it, we can be happy to know that it’s, it’s working its will through us.
Whether you call it God or the universe or the self, we’re all interconnected, and that’s just a beautiful… Son of a bitch, that guy just dinged my car. S, seriously? You were just gonna drive away? Like my life isn’t hard enough right now. A space probe might be destroyed, my parents are going through an awful divorce, the guy who cuts my dog’s hair just gave her bangs.
You saw her. She looks like Jim Carrey from Dumb and Dumber.
Oh, good. Namaste, Grandpa.
Go ahead, make fun. You can’t embarrass me, I’ve got a beautiful girlfriend and a dog who loves me so much she drinks my bathwater.
I may not be liking this game so much.
You know, a man can care deeply about a woman and a pet. It’s not strange.
All right, guys, what game do you want to play?
You know what? I think it’s a little weird that you remember me saying all these things. Maybe the truth is, you’re jealous of all my relationships.
And you think that’s going to help?
I don’t think that’s what you want at all.
Come on.
Thank you. ‘Cause if she ever found out, it would hurt her feelings.
Yes, Emily. Whatever. Where’s Sheldon?
Wow, if he cracks that it’s a game changer, guys. It’ll completely redefine our understanding of the physical universe.
Hey, guys. Mind if Emily joins us for lunch?
Just dandy, Mr I-Wish-I-Was-Better-At-Improv.
What does it say?
Did he respond yet?
I’ve, uh, created some other user accounts so I can post positive comments about their paper.
No. You have to read it how Dr. Angus McDougal of the University of Edinburgh would. This wee li’l bairn of a theory nearly blew me kilt off.
Guys, this person’s just going out of their way to get a rise out of you.
Yeah, well, all the other comments said really nice things. Focus on those.
See? Better with the accent.
Come on, Sheldon!
I’m so sick of people being mean on the Internet.
You know what? At least you guys did something. You know, you, you had a theory, you wrote a paper, you made an actual contribution. All guys like this do is just stand on other people’s work.
Yeah, you keep setting me up for failure.
Our pleasure.
Yeah, you should have burned it down years ago.
Smart, looks like we’re being helpful.
Dude, I, I think that’s Nathan Fillion.
And he’s picking the tomatoes out of his salad just like I do. I always did feel a connection with him. Oh, I have got an idea.
No, if we got Captain Reynolds from Firefly to do a signing at Stuart’s store, that would be amazing.
So should we go talk to him?
What? The, the guy who plays Jon Snow was a jerk. We still watch Game of Thrones.
I was distracted. It’s weird seeing a member of the Night’s Watch with a kayak strapped to his car. Come on. Hi, excuse me, s, sorry, I, I don’t mean to bother you, but we’re just really big fans of Firefly. And Dr. Horrible.
Don’t say that. I mean, you’re not Dame Judi Dench, but you’re pretty great.
Don’t know why he’s so grumpy. I got mistaken for that guy in Life of Pi once, and I’m still floating.
Thanks.
Are you sure you’re not him? Uh, you can tell us. We’re scientists, not crazy fanboys.
And you’re eating alone at a deli. I don’t buy it, you’re not him.
Great.
Wait, hang on. If you’re really Nathan Fillion, what’s the line from Firefly about your bonnet?
Although, I knew the line, doesn’t make me Nathan Fillion.
I want a picture with Nathan Fillion.
Ah, it’s good enough for Facebook.
That’s what I said when we moved it.
No, Stuart picked out those throw pillows all on his own.
What can we do?
He’s hanging in there.
Yeah. Mrs. Wolowitz was pretty special. When I first moved to America, Howard was my only friend and she made me feel so welcome in her home. Which says a lot, because, those first few years, she thought I was the gardener.
Yeah, I, I, I saw that article you’re talking about. Uh, the participants ask each other a series of questions designed to promote intimacy.
What? I don’t need science to win her heart. I have my family’s wealth for that.
Why don’t you just do the test?
Yeah, but what if the experiment works?
You guys are really being calm about Penny and Sheldon doing this thing. If it were me I’d, I’d be a little nervous.
Well, even if the study’s nonsense, I don’t believe in tempting fate. Same reason I wouldn’t use a Ouija board, or pick a fight with an Asian guy. He probably doesn’t know karate, but why risk it?
Well, that’s what the bullies at Bruce Lee’s high school thought. And then, bam. Karate.
Hang on. Okay. Given the choice of anyone in the world, whom would you want as a dinner guest?
Ooh, uh, Emily gets off work soon. Why don’t the four of us go out?
I don’t know what time their plane gets in, but let me, let me shoot them a text.
Not much, but he seemed to be in a pretty good place.
So, what do you guys want to do?
Oh, so kind of like what’s happening with Penny right now.
Uh, wasn’t there supposed to be a zombie?
Ooh. Okay, let’s hope one of the clues is written on a pair of clean underwear.
Okay, we’ve got the cipher decoded.
Uh, Origin of Species.
Oh, okay. Uh, brothers and sisters I have none, but this man’s father is my father’s son. Who am I looking at? Yeah, yeah, we get it, you want brains. Calm down.
It’s like when you bought that remote-controlled helicopter, and it just flew away.
So, where’s your roommate tonight?
But remember our agreement? You can joke about murdering people, but you have to say just kidding.
That’s okay. I can come back later.
Okay, cool. Oh, and you’re sure your roommate’s not gonna come back while I’m here alone, right? ‘Cause that’ll be awkward.
Oh, good.
Oh, Emily ran back to the hospital, so I’m just hanging out at her place. What are you, uh, what are you doing?
What are you, a little kid? Is she gonna cut your dinner into little pieces, too?
So, uh, what game are you… Oh. Crap.
I can’t get Emily’s night-stand to close.
She’s gonna know I was looking in it.
Well, there’s a question I better have a good answer to before she gets back.
Hang on. Oh no. Oh, no. Oh, God, no.
Dude, the whole front came off. Now she’s gonna know I was snooping.
Hang on.
With what?
She does.
Did that feel good? You feel like a big man now?
This looks terrible. She, she’s gonna know.
Okay, where should I put them?
You’re not helping.
You know, it, it’s bad enough that I have to deal with this…
Oh, no. Hey.
How was the hospital?
Uh w, well, okay, look, I, I don’t want to lie to you. I got curious, I was looking around and I broke the drawer on your night stand.
Yeah.
You’ve never snooped around my apartment?
Come on, think back. It would really help if you had.
Thank you for forgiving me.
Well, it almost happened when you called my apple pie crust doughy, but the truth is you were right, and I was just angry at myself.
Of course. What?
No. Just the drawer.
I promise. Why, what’s in there?
Of course. I know what it’s like having to go through a loved one’s possessions. My uncle was a worshipper of Krishna. But after he died, you know what we found? A statue of Shiva. It may not be Crips and Bloods, okay? But in India, it’s a thing.
It’s nice of you to let him keep staying at your mom’s house.
Everything okay?
You don’t want to do that. Refreezing not only removes moisture, but it creates ice crystals in the fibres of the meat that can compromise its taste and texture. What? I saw a teachable moment. I dropped some culinary science.
Me, too. Oh, look, we’ve got enough ketchup to cover every ounce of it.
Okay, I’ll start heating some of this stuff up.
Okay, so we’ve got, um, three briskets, four meatloafs, one lasagna.
One Jewish lasagna, two pound cakes that are about eight pounds each, and one giant container of matzoh ball soup.
You got it.
I’m not making any promises.
Mm, and not a vegetable in sight.
I would like to propose a salon topic.
The lead in The Hunger Games is a woman. Marvel has made Tor a female.
You know, Tor, the God of Tunder. As I was saying, is this a sign that our society is approaching gender equality?
No, not at all.
Hey, Penny, can you give me a hand with this?
Oh, yeah? I love Ping-Pong.
You could play Ping-Pong for it.
Dude, three-time Sanskriti School for Well-Born Boys badminton champion.
What?
We are. We are. Oh, no. What a terrible serve. Sorry, brother.
So did I.
Uh, yeah, I mean, her serve was pretty good.
Okay, uh, I’m gonna own you, bitch.
Let’s just play.
What, and that’s not offensive? Where’s the line?
You’re wrong.
Yes, you are.
The guy who invented it says it’s jif.
Hey, I got you a little gift.
You know me. I’m from India. I can’t resist children begging. So, how’s it going with the title to the house?
Wow, so you’re not curious at all?
Hmm. What if he’s in prison? What if he’s a spy? What if he’s in a Beatles cover band? I’m just saying, if he’s got your nose and haircut, he’d make a killer Ringo.
So, Bernadette, have you thought about how you’re going to redecorate this place?
You know, if you knocked out this wall, it would give you an open floor plan, and then, it’s a little scary, but could be fun, indoor fire pit.
Enough chitchat. How do we know you are who you say you are?
Okay, you got me there. You here looking for money?
A kidney, cornea, piece of his liver?
You’re in a Beatles cover band and you need Howard to replace your dad as Ringo.
Okay, but something smells fishy. And not just because you work around sea animals. That actually sounds interesting, and I’d like to learn more about it. Hey, you okay?
I get it. What do you want to do?
All right, I’ve got your back.
Listen, dude, it’s time for you to hit the road.
But technically, yes.
Hey.
You guys know the new Discovery class missions that NASA’s been working on?
Well, they’re looking to include a message from Earth in case one of them is encountered by alien life.
Anyway, I’m among a handful of scientists that have been asked to submit a design proposal for the message and its delivery system.
And I was wondering if any of you guys would like to help me do it.
Exactly what I expected. Two people forcing their ideas on me and only one gentleman who could be bothered to ask me what my thoughts were. You two are out. Congratulations, Leonard, you’re on the team.
Hey. Thanks for coming by.
I would have included the others, but you know exactly what would’ve happened. They would’ve taken over the project and bossed us around.
You should have told him to mind his own business.
What makes them think they’re always in charge of everything?
Huh, what does that make us?
Okay, that sounds good.
Okay, that sounds like us.
I don’t know. How do you want to start?
No. We can do this by ourselves.
I don’t know. How do you want to start?
Okay, so we know that previous attempts to send a message into space, like the Golden Record on Voyager, were heavily criticized.
Eh. Although, to be fair, I watched E.T. build a telephone out of a Speak & Spell and an umbrella. Dude was like a little brown MacGyver.
Well, my feelings were real when he was about to die.
And he’s all white.
And Gertie can’t stop crying.
Okay, let’s talk about something else.
And doesn’t require outside machinery to be built to access it.
Like when my dog is mad at me, she tells me by peeing in my slippers.
Bees talk to each other by dancing. Whales have their songs.
Okay, so, what it sounds like is, what we want is a device that can deliver a message through not only sight, but other senses, as well.
Ooh. Ooh, ooh. We could make a video-playing device that simultaneously translates the information into a tactile medium.
We, we can totally do that.
This is great.
What?
Well, thank you for peeing in my slippers.
Look, I know you guys are upset, but we’ve talked about it, and we think it’d be beneficial for you to be part of the project.
Look, we admit it. The idea that you guys came up with was really good, and I’d love your help.
It wasn’t, so are you in?
Okay, I think we should do it right now.
Okay.
So, I’d like to try a technique where no one gets steamrolled. When you talk, instead of bringing up a new idea, respect what was just said by building on it.
Hang on. Building on what Leonard said, no one built on what I said.
Yeah, you’re missing the point, Sheldon.
Well, I think we should show what earthlings look like.
Well, maybe there’s a way to appear non-aggressive, but also be able to protect ourselves if necessary. Like smiling and waving with one hand, but the other hand holding the severed head of a tiger.
Oh, you mean passive-aggressive like posting pictures of you and your wife eating cosmopolitan balls that you know belong in my mouth?
Look, I’m sorry I hurt your feelings, but you do have strong personalities and always end up taking over.
Yeah. Like when you took Sheldon to Texas and showed him all around NASA, you didn’t even think to ask me and Leonard.
He’s right. If you think about it, we’re all in charge.
It’s, like, the best one they make, I just can’t get it to work.
It streams HD video straight to your phone while it’s flying.
Look, the problem with commencement speeches is that they’re boring. Ooh, do you own a T-shirt cannon?
I don’t know. Why do I own one?
Mm. Hello, Daddy. What’s up?
Very well, thank you.
If you could feel how soft my skin is, you wouldn’t have to ask.
Oh, you’re where that bill goes.
No, Daddy, no. There are lots of other ways to teach me responsibility. I know, you can give me an egg and make me take care of it for a week.
But, Daddy, I, I miss my family so much, and with you and Mummy getting a divorce, I feel sad and empty. Buying a little toy every now and then helps me fill that void. So while I can’t hug you every day, flying that helicopter…
Just to be clear, financially or mid-sentence?
Hey, guys.
I have to return the helicopter. My father… What did you do?
I don’t freaking believe this.
No, you have to put this back together right now, so I can return it.
What?
Howard, my father cut me off. I have to get my money back for this.
Okay. Okay, you’re right. It’s time for me to step up and take responsibility for my life. Be a man. Hello, Mummy.
Well, I’ve been thinking about you. How are you doing? Are you happy, Mummy?
Well, I like to think I take mostly after you. Anyway, speaking of Daddy, I had a very strange conversation with him. He said he couldn’t afford to send me money any more because of his active social life.
Well, let’s not talk about him or whatever shenanigans he may or may not be up to. Let’s talk about you.
All I know, Mummy, is that he’s a single wealthy doctor, and now, for some reason, there’s no money for your little boy.
Thank you, Mummy, I love you. Helicopters for everybody.
What’s the first one?
You guys don’t have to go to the trouble. I’m back in the money now, I can just buy another helicopter.
Not cool.
What a baby.
Check.
It’s my father, you jerks. Hello, Daddy.
Nothing. I was just calling to check in, make sure she’s doing okay.
Really? I don’t know where she’d get an idea like that. You know Mummy and her crazy imagination I’m so lucky I take after you.
Well, I try to. I certainly wouldn’t be a scientist if you hadn’t been my role model. Who wants to go to Vegas in a real helicopter?
How’d you do that?
We haven’t had a good invisible man in a while.
Hey, I don’t even live here.
I do. And some of it’s wool, so dry flat if possible.
How old is this Jell-O?
Yeah, maybe it’s a good thing if she stops babying you so much.
Face it, dude, Bernadette treats you the same way your mother used to, and that was not a healthy relationship.
Looks good.
Ooh. Hot date?
You’re kidding, right?
I guess I’m just more of a Pottery Barn, Crate and Barrel kind of guy. Maybe Pier 1 if I really want to cut loose.
No, no, no. Hey, you should totally get it. In fact, I’ll buy it for you.
You guys ever notice that Emily has a bit of a twisted side?
No, because she wants to have sex with me in a graveyard.
She and I were supposed to watch the new Avengers movie tonight, but it was sold out. So I said, what else do you want to do? She said, let’s go to a cemetery and do it on somebody’s grave.
What difference does it make?
Well, what if it’s one consenting adult and one adult who pretends to consent because he’s afraid of being alone?
I don’t know, guys. Maybe this relationship isn’t for me. Maybe I should break up with her.
You guys are being jerks.
You’re one to talk. You’ve been complaining about Stuart living here for the past year. I don’t see you showing him the door.
Baloney, okay? You two are as afraid of hurting someone’s feelings as I am.
Oh, yes, we’ve got the moon and the trees and Elizabeth McNulty, who apparently died when she was the same age I am.
So does enjoying a meal at a well-lit restaurant, but here we are.
Of ghosts, no. Of you, little bit.
I think we should talk.
Look, I care about you a lot, but we are very different people.
No, no, I’m just pointing out that you’re dark on the inside and I’m dark on the outside.
End things? I’m trying to tell you that I love you.
Who wants hot cinnamon rolls?
Didn’t even crack the top ten.
I’m sure you guys will figure something out.
Really?
Yeah. Come on, I’ll give you a ride.
I can’t believe you made out with Mandy Chao.
And you knew about this this whole time?
And you didn’t think to tell me?
Let’s leave Leonard out of this for the moment. This is about you and me.
Hang on. What do I need to do to make you trust me?
I bet you told Bernadette all about how he was screwing around with Mandy Chao.
Whatever. It would have been nice to hear it from you.
How do you know?
And I’m just hearing about this now?
You don’t have to, you should want to.
I don’t know, but I’d like to get lost in her Bermuda Triangle.
Not yet, this is fun. Ooh, I know. I’d let her free my willy. Where you going?
Now we are done.
Hey, Leonard, when you’re done, we came up with a bunch more.
Well, you eloped and we didn’t get a chance to throw you a bachelor party, so there’s a van downstairs and we’re here to take you to a surprise location for the weekend.
Yeah, Penny packed you a bag.
Oh, not just him, you’re coming, too.
And I told you he bit me.
This van was owned and driven by your personal physics hero, Richard Feynman.
Yeah, nothing’s been changed since he drove it.
Uh, okay, let’s see. They’ve got spicy food and there’s a chance you’ll get diarrhoea.
We can drive there.
What’s wrong with Mexico?
We don’t have any of those.
Dude, how many races can you offend in a single breath?
Perhaps some of his mojo will rub off on us. Maybe between this and his beach house, we will be inspired to greatness.
When did you learn how to change a tyre?
Are you turning it the right way?
Here, let me try. You’re right, it doesn’t turn the other way.
It’s called Lamaze breathing. It helps you push.
There’s got to be a smarter way of removing it.
Of course. All we need is to find stuff to make a lever big enough to fix this.
If this was Star Trek, we could use a phaser to blast it off.
If you need a green hand, why not just use the Hulk?
I had no idea tortilla chips were such a good fuel source.
Is that enough to melt the lug nut?
Hey, look, the lug nut’s off.
Have you seen this Archie comic? It’s actually Archie versus Predator.
I don’t know. Maybe Jughead’s a Terminator.
Hey, we’ve always talked about playing together.
Oh, we could play filk music.
It’s been around for years. It’s like folk music, but with a sci-fi/fantasy theme.
Dude, if we do this, we’re gonna need a cool band name.
Really?
What is it?
I just got chills.
So I have an idea for a filk song. It’s kind of a, a power ballad, superhero crossover tale of epic proportions.
Okay, so it’s a, it’s a David and Goliath story. It’s about man against God. It’s called Hammer and Whip, The Untold Story of Thor versus Indiana Jones.
Okay, I don’t have it all worked out yet, but I was thinking something like, um, Oh, Indy, oh, Indy, the skies are so windy. Is that a flying man with a killer bod? Wait, that’s no man, it’s a Norse god.
That is, that is so good!
Okay, and here’s the hook. Thor and Dr. Jones. Thor and Dr. Jones. One plays with lightning, the other plays with bones.
Hey, remember The Ark of the Covenant?
That’s how much we’re gonna melt people’s faces off.
Runs from stones means that, that big boulder, but I couldn’t rhyme anything with boulder.
Right, yeah, right. But, what do you think?
Cute? It’s not cute. Cute is children dressed as vegetables.
Just be honest. You don’t like it.
You can dance to this. Um, uh, uh, Thor and Dr. Jones. Thor and Dr. Jones. One plays with lightning, the other plays with bones.
I’m telling you, dude, the song has no groove, you can’t dance to it.
You can do both, like Michael Jackson’s Billie Jean. While you’re dancing you’re thinking, like, darn it, whose baby is it?
I still love it. I just think there’s room for improvement.
Yeah, so what?
No, no. I’m just evolving as a musician. You’re the one who’s stuck in the past.
She has nothing to do with this. I am my own man.
That is so not true.
That had nothing to do with Rachel. It was an overreaction to a bad zipper injury.
Fine, I quit, too.
With pleasure.
What took you so long?
Thor said, that’s a nice look in nineteen fourty-foura.
When was the last actual exercise you got?
Are you?
I feel cool. Like Puss in Boots.
We can still be swashers.
Yeah, I’m here because I think it’s gonna be like Game of Thrones.
Ooh, ooh, I forgot about Princess Bride. That’s my answer.
Look at us. We’re like the Rockettes.
My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.
Oh, yeah, right. Sorry. My name is Puss in Boots. You killed my father. Prepare to die.
My name is Little Orphan Annie. You killed my father. Prepare to die.
Why? You never thought you’d end up in a relationship, and then you met Amy. Maybe there’s someone else out there for you.
Whoa, whoa. Walking up to a strange woman in a bar usually doesn’t work.
How many sips of that beer did he have?
Why do you need Kripke? Can’t you just go to Party City for helium?
Hey, people were still talking about that party on siete de Mayo.
Hello.
What are you guys up to?
Oh, fun. Let me see. Uh, no, no, uh, definitely not.
Uh, he’s Indian. We’ve already got one of those. Ooh, we should find a nice Latino, really round us out.
You know he won’t be looking at other girls.
That’s a fair point. We wouldn’t make fun of someone like this to their face.
You may want to leave the room.
I have that same underwear.
I had a great time last night.
What? I thought we were all… never mind.
Hmm. I’m doing okay, and I was very popular at 13.
Oh, no. At home. The servants would sing to me, laugh at my jokes. I wish I knew their names.
Oh. Hey, high five.
So, your father-in-law is in there right now?
Oh, okay. Got it.
Hey.
You sure? It’s a pretty great wall.
I’m sorry. I did what I could.
That is so generous of you. I’d like to switch sides.
Well, it’s easy to find out. Just go into the crawlspace under the house and check.
It’s interesting your father didn’t help around the house and Howard doesn’t help, either, so in a way, Howard’s not only like your father, but he’s also like the child that you’re afraid to have.
Fine, I’ll leave. But it sounds like somebody needs a fresh diaper.
So what’s up?
You’re not wrong about Fruit Stripe. I was always a Hubba Bubba man.
Hey, the jaw wants what it wants.
Oh, right, uh, girlfriend. Okay.
And you’re afraid it’ll do a better job than you?
Yeah, no, but it is basic human nature. If we present him as a prize, maybe they would.
I don’t know if I’d say you… oh.
Oh, we could set it up like a scavenger hunt where the last puzzle gives the winner Sheldon’s contact information.
I’m a little jealous of the people who get to do it.
This is exciting.
I, I hope we didn’t make the puzzles too hard.
37 minutes left until the deadline.
Not as fun as the night we blew up grapes in the microwave. We really have led full lives.
Maybe you don’t want someone exactly like you. You know what they say, opposites attract.
Sixty seconds. This is not looking good.
Forty-five.
Thirty seconds.
Guys, fifteen seconds.
Five, four, three, two, one. That’s too bad.
I don’t think it matters. Look, Sheldon, I believe when the time is right for you to meet someone, it’ll just happen. Okay? Not because of a test or a Web site, but because… we are the dreamers of dreams.
Answer it.
How could you send her away?
Have you guys seen this feature that lets you talk to Siri without pressing any buttons?
You just say, uh, Hey, Siri, what time is it?
Nice try. It only recognizes my voice.
I don’t sound like that.
Do you ever do anything for anyone else?
You’re in a soup kitchen, not a production of Oliver!
You know, this reminds me of high school.
No, I was in India, it was humid and smelled funny.
You know, I read that washing dishes can be an excellent form of meditation. The key is that while washing the dishes one should only be washing the dishes.
No, seriously. It’s about being present in the moment, focusing on the feeling of the warm water, the smell of the detergent, the sound of the dishes squeaking, and following your own breath. It’s about, it’s about simply being.
Me.
Oh. Did you know, at the United Nations, there’s a Department for Outer Space Affairs?
They exist in case we ever make contact with an alien civilization.
Oh, this is cool. So, a few weeks ago I set up a fan page on Facebook for our band and…
It’s not a big deal. It just took, like, five minutes to set up.
But someone joined our page. We have an actual fan.
So, listen to what he wrote. Uh, I saw you play at the comic book store. You guys rock. And then there’s an animated smiley face raising the roof like this.
Yeah, we totally did.
Maybe we should post a comment back to our fan and thank him.
How about, uh, oh, how about, we might be Footprints on the Moon, but your kind words sent us over the moon.
Well what do you want to write?
Dude, if I was wearing a bra, I’d throw it at your head right now.
Okay. I posted it.
Let’s see. Uh, his name is Trent Monaco.
Yeah. He’s 24. He’s a deejay. He brews his own beer. He’s got awesome tattoos. Dude, he’s got a hot girlfriend, too.
He is so cool. Hey, no hard feelings, but I’m throwing my hypothetical bra at him.
That is so cool. Old broken things are so much better than new things that work.
Hey, dude, Trent just checked in at the coffee shop on Fair Oaks.
It’s not creepy. I built a Footprints on the Moon fan page, Trent joined it.
From there, it was easy to find him on Instagram, Snapchat and pretty much track his every movement.
Yeah, like she could get Trent.
So, all right, there he is. So, should we introduce ourselves?
I wonder if he’s listening to our music right now.
And he’s, all, like, aren’t you the guys from Footprints on the Moo-oo-ooh what is he doing?!
It’s okay. Oh, it’s okay. He’s done.
Eh, no, he’s not going to eat it, is he?
Ooh!
No, never heard of ’em!
Wait. You’re sure they’re Star Wars tickets?
Guys, they’re gonna sell out.
Good for Sheldon deciding to stay with Amy on her birthday.
I don’t know. Have you ever seen a movie with Stuart before?
Tonight’s the night.
Let’s do this.
I can’t believe Sheldon gave this up.
Oh, did you hear from Wil?
Check.
What is everyone booing at?
Is it bad? Did you hear something? Oh, my God. It’s bad. Somebody kill me.
And we’ve built it up in our heads so much.
It is.
Leonard, I, I’m scared again.
I don’t think I can walk right now.
Uh, I’ve got time booked in the telescope room all weekend scanning for rogue planets. You’re more than welcome to join me.
Well, I should warn you, it’s just looking at data for hours and hours on a computer screen.
Hello.
Oh. What if Leonard made an appointment and tried to lay some groundwork for you?
Low self-esteem.
Lack of confidence.
Pushover.
Uh, making sure the telescope’s camera is white-field balanced.
Still making sure the telescope’s camera is white-field balanced.
Now I’m making sure the telescope’s camera is white-field balanced and wishing you had a colouring book.
Fine, you want something to do? There’s about six months of data on this hard drive. Why don’t you go through it and see if you can spot any patterns or anomalies.
Yeah, okay, whatever it takes to keep you busy for a few hours.
No, you didn’t. There are millions of data points there.
Yeah, maybe that is something. How did you find that?
No.
Okay, so once we receive the next image and compare it to the ones we’ve already collected, we’ll know what it is that we found.
It could be a trans-Neptunian object.
Unlikely, but it could be a dwarf planet.
Okay, the final image is coming in. And the object we discovered is…
A medium-sized asteroid.
I kind of like chicken fingers.
Come on, a medium-sized asteroid is still an interesting discovery.
You dream different than me.
Yeah, it is. And you know we get to name it.
So I was thinking, maybe we can come up with a name for the asteroid by combining our names.
How is that both our names?
Yeah, s-so it’s, like, Kooper with a K?
I learned that for free from a cat poster, but good for you.
Wait, what happened to us?
We haven’t settled on anything yet.
That is a great idea.
So, uh, what were you thinking? Combine their names?
That’s just Amy.
But it’s beautiful.
Yay.
Sheldon, stop being a baby and let Emily take a look at you.
Hey, Stuart.
I wish we could do more stuff without Sheldon.
Huh. Okay. As long as it doesn’t end with us having coitus with him, I’m in.
Oh, Ooh, maybe we could get one of those party buses to take us there.
Yeah, that sounds fun. A party-bus party don’t stop. Ooh, when I say party, you say bus.
Of course I do.
Okay, okay, the point is that we accept your apology.
Yeah, but he doesn’t mean it.
What are you doing?
Fine, how about this? You’re making me uncomfortable by prolonging this ridiculous fight, and I wish you’d stop.
No, come on, please don’t leave.
What is wrong with you?
You went to Emily’s to apologise, and when you left, she was crying.
Yeah, I calmed her down, but she’s not going to Vegas if he’s going.
That’s very mature of you.
You know it. Oo-ah, oo-ah.
Oh, God.
You know, Sheldon…
I’m sorry, and how much money did your version of Frozen make?
She built an ice castle, made a snow monster and gave herself a complete makeover in one day. You know what I saw you do today? Eat a block of cream cheese straight from the foil and lie about it to your wife.
Yeah, that’s true. In fact, they liked the song so much, they retooled the whole script around it.
I’m so sorry but, how can you not like that movie?
It was a classic western set in the post-Jurassic period, and it changed my life.
Oh, I see you’re reading Saga.
It is, and not a lot of comics have a woman with wings breastfeeding a baby right on the cover.
I’m Raj, by the way. This is Howard.
Well, I’ve never seen you here before, Claire.
Yeah, I get that. I’m a scientist, slash party planner, slash small-dog enthusiast, slash guy who probably should have stopped at scientist.
Well, astrophysicist.
Sure. I love animated movies.
Excuse me for wanting a little magic in my life.
Yeah, great.
Yeah, bye.
So?
I wouldn’t say she’s beautiful.
I do. I just wouldn’t tell my girlfriend.
Just to help her with her screenplay.
Hey, it’s not my fault if American women project their fantasies on foreigners with the kind of magical voice that grants wishes.
Uh, it’s hard to say. I think we’re good, but things like this make me wonder if Emily’s really the right person for me. I mean, did you guys ever have doubts about each other?
All right. I’ve made up my mind. I’m gonna do the right thing, call this girl, and let her know that I’m in a relationship.
I’m calling her. And the threesome didn’t deserve the belly laugh it got.
Hi. Hi. Yeah, it’s Raj. Rajesh. We met at the comic book store.
Actually, that’s why I’m calling. I, um, I just, I need to let you know that I have a girlfriend.
Well, no, no. I, I didn’t want to mislead you after you asked me out.
Wait, are you saying that we didn’t have a vibe?
Come on, I just told you I had a girlfriend. The least you can do is tell me if we had a vibe.
I knew it. Okay, we did have a vibe. This is exciting. What’s my next move?
Right. Good catch. Anyway, so I’m sorry to waste your time. And, uh, and good luck with your screenplay.
Not me. Ever since you admitted we had a vibe, I’ve been planning our wedding.
Okay. That hurts a little, but okay.
Bye. All right. So, uh, we’re meeting for coffee like two adults. Everybody’s happy. Easy peasy.
Yeah, of course. We have no secrets.
He lied about the cream cheese. He ate the whole thing. I saw him.
Yeah, see, if you just change the story to the destruction of our galaxy, then a super massive black hole could work.
And that’s how Mommy and Daddy met.
I will.
Hey.
Spending Valentine’s Day with Emily.
Oh, I am, I am. I, I guess I’m still wondering if Emily and I are right for each other.
You mean the strong, sexy angel I can’t stop thinking about? Who can say?
Well, you say it like it’s easy. Have any one of you ever broken up with anyone?
Yeah, I think so. Do you have any advice?
Oh, I’m gonna do a pre-cry before I go in there. Really dry myself out.
Yeah.
You’re right, let’s talk again in a few days.
But I just broke up with my girlfriend.
Please take me back. Our love was meant to be.
I’m gonna all alone on Valentine’s Day.
Yes. Whenever things are going well, I always find a way to ruin it. You two look happy, how do you do it?
No, Sheldon’s right. Emily did say I always talk about my feelings too much.
Kripke? Is that you?
But, Amy, when you and Sheldon split up, didn’t you start dating someone right away?
Before Emily, I was alone for so long. I just, I don’t know if I can do that again.
Rich parents, don’t forget, rich parents.
I’m sorry for bothering you. I’ll hang up now.
Because instead of being in the telescope room, I was busy making you guys home made jam for the holidays.
Hey, bud.
If it’s thank you for the home made jam you got in December, congratulations, you’re the first one.
That’s so amazing.
Well, he could bring the baby here.
I read that in Los Angeles, raising a child through college can cost over a million dollars.
I know, you could ask Bernadette for a raise in your allowance.
I wasn’t joking.
Yeah, come on, this is great news and you know it.
I’d like to propose a toast to our friend, Howard, his, um, his big heart, his beautiful soul…
It’s true. I like my giant iPad and my little iPad almost as much as my regular-sized iPad.
Uh, it’s in the corner.
I hope the bathroom is clearly marked.
They have that. It’s called Uber.
Groundbreaking revelations, tropical drinks. Tell me this isn’t like the best episode of Sex and the City.
It’s a good sign.
Even drunk, he’s still smarter than all of us.
Look at that. You’ve known you’re gonna be a father for less than a day and you’re already stepping up.
Just bust a move,
Just bust a move,
He’s been fascinated with dinosaurs lately. Maybe we could get him a fossil.
You mean, some guy in a lame suit?
Hey, so what was Adam West like on the phone?
You know, Adam West is my favourite Batman? Well, after Michael Keaton, Christian Bale and Batman from The Lego Movie.
What? He beat out George Clooney, and that’s something. Like, I love me some Clooney.
Thank you. That’s why I say Keaton’s number one. He brought a sense of humour to the role.
Yeah, of course.
Come on, Sheldon, say something.
And it was Gandhi who said, live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.
Hey, guys. Hey, Penny. I really appreciate you helping me with this. I don’t know what to do.
I hadn’t spoken to Emily since I broke up with her, and she left this on my doorstep with a note.
I know. I mean, do I open it? Do I return it?
Well, she was pretty mad. For all I know it’s a voodoo doll of me with a fork stuck in my junk.
You know, on Game of Thrones, Balon Greyjoy received his son’s genitals in a box.
Wow. It’s an antique sextant. Sailors used these to find their position by the stars.
I know, she’s so thoughtful.
You know, I have too much self-esteem to let this girl guilt me into getting back together with her.
It doesn’t matter. It’s the thought that counts.
Seriously, guys, I don’t want to know.
Oh, come on, you can’t say oh my, and then not tell me.
Maybe you’re right.
Maybe you’re right. Wow, I am easy to manipulate. Oh, guys, it’s Emily. What should I do?
Hello?
Yeah, yeah. Sure. What’s up?
Maybe, maybe.
I’m sorry, I seem to be taking an annoying amount of time deciding how I feel about this.
I’m sorry, I don’t think that’s a good idea.
Good-bye, Emily. That was rough, you guys.
Well, anyway, I’ll leave you to your girls’ night.
No, I kind of feel like being alone right now.
Thank you.
Will do.
Hi. I’m good. Really good. Well, I don’t know why I said really good. I’m just regular good. I really just wanted to sound confident. And that really was a real really, not a fake really like the first really.
I don’t know. I lost track and I missed my exit. So, uh, so what’s up?
Really? I’m sorry. I swear I know other words.
Yes. Indeed. Absolutely. Indubitably. I’m not even sure what the last one means, but it’s another word, and I know it. So, uh, when do you want to meet up?
Right now, well, well, actually, to, to be completely honest, I’m stopping by to see my ex-girlfriend because she’s having a tough time. But it’s not like we’re getting back together or anything.
That’s exactly what she said. How do you know that?
Any chance you could send me a PDF of that playbook?
Hey, Emily, listen, I’ve been thinking, and I’m not sure it’s a good idea that I come over.
No, no. Please don’t cry.
Hey, so, listen, Claire, change of plans…
I don’t think so. She sounded pretty upset.
Emily, listen, I’m sorry, but I can’t come by.
I think we both know if I come over, we’re gonna get back together and…
Call you right back.
I hear what you’re saying, but I’ve known Emily a long time, and I think she deserves the benefit of the doubt.
As a matter of fact, I do. I’m gonna comfort her, because I’m a caring and decent friend who’s happy to be there when she needs someone to talk to.
Good talk.
Hey. Where are the guys?
I’m an astrophysicist. The stars don’t take a day off.
Well, the cleaning lady was there, but she doesn’t like me. You need any help?
Okay. That’s cool. I guess everybody’s involved in this project but me. So, see ya.
I need to rub my genitals on their prototype.
Leonard and Howard don’t have a flat. They went to the movies. Look.
Oh. You know what? I’m gonna let them know that I’m here with you and that they’re busted.
Interesting. I mean, it’s not testicles on a cryostat, but I like it.
I know. You guys should totally be making out with me.
No, ma’am.
I love it, I’ll be all like, busted, and they’ll be like, what? And then we’ll all be like, oh yeah. Yeah, I get it. I wouldn’t make out with me, either.
Oh, man, when I come out of the closet, I’m gonna nail those guys. Yeah, I heard it. Shut up.
Busting you.
Well this is kind of anti-climactic.
No spoilers. No spoilers.
No, no, you’re pregnant. The only thing you carry is our hope for a better tomorrow.
Bernie, I just forwarded you a list of the top five lactation consultants in Los Angeles. I know my favourite, but I’d love to hear what you think.
Hello.
Please, my pleasure.
I don’t understand.
Of course. I’ll give you guys some space. Let me just get this out of your way.
No, I got it.
Please, Bernadette. Let me leave with my dignity.
I appreciate the apology, but it’s really not necessary. I overstepped my bounds.
Well, if that’s the case, is there anything I can do to help?
Really? It’s okay if I listen with you?
Can I squirt the ultrasound jelly on your stomach?
Are you sure you can do this?
I buried it there, so we could go home.
Wow.
You guys made a person.
And I like to think I helped.
But wouldn’t Man-Batman just be a Batman that was bitten by a radioactive man?
Well, that’s just Batman.
Uh, actually I’m seeing both of them.
No, I’m actually dating two women. Later.
Man, I’m worn out.
No, it’s just, ever since I started dating Claire and Emily at the same time, it’s exhausting.
But, dude, you’re so lucky. Getting to stay home at night with the woman you love.
You are, because dating two women, I mean, I can’t even remember the last time I slept in my own apartment. I wake up and I’m like, am I at Claire’s or am I at Emily’s? Is there a third girl I’ve forgotten about? Like, where am I?
Hey, how’s the mommy-to-be?
I feel you. I’ve been dating multiple women.
Oh, that sounds great, a bed to yourself. Can’t even remember what that’s like.
Totally, guys are the worst. I mean, look at me. I let Emily make me a frittata and I kept the leftovers in Claire’s fridge that night. I’m such a dog.
I’m sorry, have I been complaining about it too much?
How could you say that?
I never said that.
Okay, that I said. But that’s a real problem. You give a girl another woman’s bra, and you will not be having sex with her that night. Maybe the other girl, but not her.
Hey, did I say something to upset you?
Really? Because usually we walk side by side, and I just went up two flights of stairs staring at your bottom.
Okay, I think I see what’s happening here. You’re jealous of me.
It’s not what I have, it’s how many people I’m having it with.
Fine, I don’t want to watch with you either. I’ll go over here.
Okay, then you go there.
Wait, did Amy make her spinach dip?
Says I was talking too much about dating Claire and Emily, and I accused him of being jealous.
All right, it’s almost game time. Get it? Game of Thrones, game time?
You know, if you think about it, tonight was kind of like a real-life Game of Thrones.
Well, Howard eating that pistachio was like when King Joffrey got poisoned.
Okay. But you using Sheldon to do your dirty work is like when Cersei used the King’s Guard to do her bidding.
Okay. Oh, how about this? Stuart’s dressed like a brother of the Night’s Watch, and they don’t have sex.
I would love to. I do enjoy the complexity of an aged Pinot noir.
Hey, you think it’d be okay if I brought Claire to the wine tasting?
Oh, that’s great. I’ve been wanting her to meet you guys, too, so this seems like the perfect opportunity.
Funny how that worked out.
No, I’m still dating her.
They know that we’re not exclusive, and we just don’t ask too many questions.
It’s, it’s beautiful.
Hey, Claire.
Hi, yeah. Um, I was wondering, if you’re free Saturday night, all my friends are going to a wine tasting.
Why would it be too big a step?
Nothing to worry about. People meet people all the time, and it isn’t weird. I met Bon Jovi once, which you’d think might be weird. Turns out, total sweetheart.
Boy, it wasn’t this hard with Bon Jovi. I said you rock, he said, thanks, man, and that was that.
Oh, she’s meeting us here. Hey, guys, do me a favour and don’t ask too many questions about the relationship. We’re just keeping it casual.
Yeah, I know you’re teasing, but watch out for karma.
Hey, while you decide, who was better in bed, big hot Zack or wheezy little Leonard? Neener neener.
Also, uh, cherries?
Hey.
You can’t let this stop you. Almost any scientific advancement can be used for destructive purposes.
Hey, Claire. Good, you’re here. Guys, this is my friend Claire. We’re casually dating, and there’s no need for any further questions about it.
I said no questions.
Zack, this is my friend Claire.
Uh, she’s seeing me.
We’re just keeping it casual.
Hey, dude, you’re killing me with Claire.
I mean, come on, look at you. You’re classically handsome, you’ve got a swimmer’s body. Next to you, I look like me.
Yeah, okay, just do me a favour and stop talking about how great Claire is.
Don’t listen to him. He says crazy things all the time. Uh, watch. Marco.
So, uh, what are you guys talking about?
Why would you do that? I specifically asked you not to do that.
Did you guys see there’s an Avengers screening? Joss Whedon’s gonna show some deleted scenes and do a question and answer session.
Uh, it’s tonight, but it’s first-come, first-served, so we should probably get there early and wait in line.
Uh, I’d say by three.
Yeah, sleeping under the stars with other fans who love the show as much as we do.
Boy, all this standing’s making me tired. Good thing I brought my collapsible stick chair.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but chairs on sticks are comfy.
You can’t make me feel bad.
He’s got him there. The D even stands for department.
You sure?
You’re right. You realize what this means?
Congratulations.
Open it.
Is there a window around here we don’t know about?
Yeah, of course. What else could it be? Boy, do I love America.
Okay, look, I’m on the Air Force Web site, and the department that e-mailed you is in charge of acquisitions. So maybe they just want to give you a lot of money for your invention.
No, I was just thinking about Jurassic World. Boy, that was terrible.
You can’t ignore it. It’s not that postcard that says it’s time to go back to the dentist.
Oh, dude. The minute you opened that e-mail, they knew you got it. I mean, they’re probably looking at you through the camera right now. I love America.
Oh, if it’s even the U.S. Military. It could be foreign military pretending to be American.
I also love the enemies of America.
Howard, there must be someone at the university you can go to for help.
What about the guy on the Channel Four News? You know, Four on Your Side? Maybe he can be on your side.
I’d like to think the Four on Your Side guy cares about me.
Uh, turn left here and see if he turns with us.
Oh, no.
I, I think he wants us to pull over.
It is funny when you think about it.
Hello.
Howard Wolowitz?
Address?
Um, no.
May I ask what this is about?
Very well.
Okay.
That’s not him.
What are you talking about? They’ve always known where you live.
Can we take a moment to discuss that I just lied to the government for you?
Hey, make sure you tell him that you weren’t home when he came by and that your Indian friend gave you the message the moment you stepped through the door.
Oh, I take it back, don’t mention me.
That’s what he said to me.
Calm down, okay? Try not to think about it.
You know that hurts my feelings.
Okay.
Oh, come on. What’s the worst that could come of this meeting?
Okay, that’s not so bad. You know what happened to the scientists that worked on the Manhattan Project? The government forced them to move to the desert. They had to live in secret, and when Oppenheimer objected to what they made him do, they destroyed his reputation.
I just read a book about Oppenheimer, seemed like a chance to show off. There he is, there’s my happy Hebraic homeboy. Yeah, that’s the smile I’m gonna remember when you’re living in the desert and I’m living with your wife.
Yeah. This military guy showed up at Howard’s door. He was terrifying.
He gave me his business card and asked me to please pass it along to Howard.
To a white guy born here, no. If you are a brown guy whose name has a lot of syllables in it, terrifying.
Well, you’re kidding, right?
Wail till I Snapchat that my friends might be working on a top secret government project.
Fine, I’ll put it on Facebook like a caveman.
Well, you must have someone in your family that’s a lawyer.
My cousin does work in a call centre.
Oh, I’m not on the patent. I’m just here because there’s a bumblebee in my office.
Is it even possible to get this done in two months?
So, why did you guys even agree to the deadline?
And you just let him?
So I guess I won’t be seeing you guys for a while.
Wow. You’re going off to work with the military, leaving me behind. Now I know how all those army wives feel.
And right here.
He is so afraid of his feelings.
Well, I didn’t get to see you last night. It was the least I could do.
So, what should we do today?
Well, I don’t mind. Oh, you want go to the mall and look at baby stuff?
Oh, come on, we could share a pretzel and get sideways glances from racist old ladies.
Oh, I know, why don’t we get started on clearing out the baby’s room?
You have to get to it eventually.
How can you be embarrassed around me? I’m gonna be in the room with you when you give birth.
You didn’t think I was gonna be in your kitchen this morning, yet here I am.
Well, in The Sound of Music, Julie Andrews says let’s start at the very beginning, a very good place to start.
Well, I think the first thing we should get rid of is that tone.
Oh, that’s a nice one. Was it yours when you were little?
Wow, it’s so cute.
Oh, and did they have kids?
Yeah, that’s not worrisome at all.
I skipped spin class for this.
I think you were mean before you were pregnant, but it’s fine. So, uh, instead of cleaning out the room, why don’t we just decide on a theme for the nursery?
Of course it does. Didn’t your baby room have a theme?
Oh. Mine was Winnie the Pooh. But anyway, why don’t we just take a step back and start with a colour? Right? There are so many amazing ones. Red, blue, green, purple.
Well, not now.
Okay, well, I’m just trying to help you.
Sorry. Sorry.
So where are we going?
Okay. How Thelma and Louise of us.
I’m sorry?
Well, crime-scene photos near your crib spring to mind.
Bernadette, come on, look, you’re overthinking this, okay? You’re gonna be an amazing mom. Even if you don’t believe it, I know you have maternal instincts.
Happy and well-fed. You see, that’s what I’m taking from that story.
Uh, pull over.
Whoa, I’m calling my dad, okay? He’s got experience dealing with pregnant ladies because he’s an OBGYN. And experience with crazy ladies because of my mom.
What? No.
No.
This is my friend, Bernadette. She’s pregnant, and she’s a bit worried, so I thought maybe you could talk to her.
Well I don’t.
I have to say, I am happy with your OBGYN.
I’m the son of a gynaecologist. I could be helpful.
The polite response is, thank you for noticing.
If you want, you can find out right now.
Well, somebody else knows because they saw it in the folder.
It was an accident. The doctor left the folder out on her desk. It’s not my fault I opened it and looked.
Flip a coin. You got a fifty-fifty shot.
What? This is not a problem, okay? If you don’t want to know, I don’t have to tell you.
Okay, well, that’s a problem.
Hello?
Hello?
Hello.
What time do you and Bernadette head out?
I’ve never been to Palm Springs.
I don’t know. If I want to watch old people sweat, I can just FaceTime my family in India.
Hmm. They must have left the tub on. Good thing I stopped by. Ah. Aaaaah! What are you doing here?
Maybe Howard and Bernadette said I could be here.
Answer the question, what are you doing here?
Here you go.
Shall we toast?
So how’s your apartment?
So why don’t you get it fixed?
If you ever need somewhere to crash, there’s always my place.
Actually, I’m single now.
It’s okay. It’s by choice. Well, their choice, and it’s not okay.
Nobody does. I was embarrassed so I didn’t say anything.
Yeah, yeah, a little.
I’m in a hot tub with you, so pretty bad.
I wonder if this is what it feels like to be Bernadette’s baby.
Well, it’s getting late. Maybe we should head home.
You coming?
Why?
Yeah?
Wait till you see the crib we found.
Yeah, it’s the highest rated one on the market. I wouldn’t even call it a crib, I’d call it a Fortress of Solitude for babies.
Though if you did, it’s more zeroes than you’re expecting.
Though we did ding up the back pretty good with the crib, so you might have bought a minivan.
Then again, he did think you were my husband.
Hey, show her the trunk. Show her the trunk.
No, it’s a gentle kick, you’re doing it wrong. Here. Give me those.
Yes.
You have to admit, it’s a pretty smooth ride.
Howard, Howard, look at the DVD screen. I put on Batman: The Animated Series. Your favourite.
I’ve been babysitting him way longer than you have.
We don’t get paid? Nothing? Not even a sandwich?
If we’re all gonna die, why am I eating so much kale?
Oh my God, that’s who you look like.
Not me, I’m a hundred percent honest in all of my relationships.
Eating cake on the toilet single.
I’m not really a part of this, so I’m just gonna dig in.
Now that everything’s out on the table, you, you think you two will keep living together?
That would be amazing.
We can, but for the record, all chaps are assless.
Do you like living with her?
Oh, my God, I just got it. Fun onions, Funyuns. Hold on. Is that a wobble? Yes. That’s definitely a gravitational wobble.
Oh, no, it’s okay. I just found a wobble.
It’s a gravitational wobble. It could be a sign of an extrasolar planet that may contain life and someday be named after me.
Yeah, but it’s probably difficult to pronounce.
Good point. And you are?
Oh, well, nice to meet you.
Oh, please, show me a ten-year-old who knows to dip Tootsie Rolls in Nutella.
Oh, please, allow me. That’s a lot of empty calories.
You’re welcome.
Okay.
Thank you. Good luck with your future endeavours.
Oh, no, that’s mine.
Well, I can’t eat like a ten-year-old all the time.
What? What are you talking about?
That’s because you keep trying to stick pencils in it.
There’s nothing to tell.
It’s gross but I have to eat it because I met somebody.
Isabella.
Yes, in the telescope room.
Yes, which is why she was in the telescope room. Yes, this is all making sense. Good.
Mm-hmm.
No, no, this is brand new. We haven’t even been on a proper date yet.
Thank you.
This is fun. I have never cleaned a toilet before.
No, I grew up with a house full of servants and now I have a cleaning lady who is a lovely woman who I have great respect for.
Oh, good, because she also walks my dog, buys my groceries and cuts my hair.
Uh, so forgive me, forgive me for being nosy, but is, is there a wedding ring under those pretty rubber gloves?
Oh, so, you are unencumbered?
I love kids, how old is he?
That’s a cute age. They can do so many things.
That’s wonderful. A lawyer, my sister’s a lawyer. Look at that, we have something in common.
Maybe there are other things we have in common. Come dinnertime, do you enjoy eating food?
Yeah, sure. I understand. Yeah, I’m very busy, too.
I think you’re very nice as well.
Oh, yes. Oh, okay. Uh, Good night. I don’t know, maybe it’s the fumes from the urinal cakes, but I feel like something is happening between us.
Okay. I’ll leave. But just know, every time I come in here, I’ll be thinking of you.
Welcome.
Oh, well, you said you didn’t have time to go out for dinner, so I thought we could have one right here.
Oh, come on, we’re in the telescope room. It’ll be like dining under the stars. You see this, uh, double zero? When it says zero one that means it’s twinkling. Sometimes it takes a while.
That’s why I already cleaned up in here and all the other rooms in the hall.
Oh, please sit. I tried to cook you a meal from your homeland.
That depends, do they have Mexican food in Cuba?
So, um, what surprised you the most when you first came to America?
I thought that, too. But then I got my first waffle maker and never questioned her again.
Uh.
Uh.
No, p-please don’t.
Isabella. Isabella wait, wait, let me explain.
I’m sorry. Honestly, I didn’t think your job would bother me, but I guess it did. And I hate myself for that. But there’s a lot of things about me that would totally embarrass you.
Well, prepare to be mortified. I let my dog eat food out of my mouth, not because she likes it but because I do. Also, I know they’re pretty, but I’m scared of butterflies.
Come on. What do you say? Let me make it up to you.
It’s my one move.
Great. Where would you like to go?
Excuse me, but I’m Indian.
Couldn’t have happened to a nicer guy.
Over half a million dollars.
Hey, congratulations Bert.
This is tough, but I’m going to say it’s the guy who shows me YouTube videos of people getting hit in the nuts.
What’s this button do?
I laughed because the guy was Leonard.
Well, I’m glad to see you moving forward.
Then the robot uprising has begun.
He doesn’t just look like C-3PO, now he walks like him.
It’s a human emotion, Sheldon. Everyone gets jealous. I’m jealous of Leonard and Penny and Howard and Bernadette for being in such happy relationships.
Sure.
Thank you for saying that. Next to buying things, that is the best part about having money.
I think you’re both cute.
Hey, Stuart. What are you doing here?
Do, uh, Howard and Bernadette know? Or is it like a possum in the walls kind of thing?
Okay, cool.
Oh, but I bought Chinese takeout.
So, I was reading how it’s a good idea for new parents to take an infant CPR class.
Although it was already under control.
It’s just that they’ve had plenty of help.
Well, they already had a village.
Yeah, well, maybe the village was too busy checking out the local Montessori school for the new arrival.
I’m here to put the crib together.
Well I don’t know if you realize this, but I bought that crib.
Why are you being like this?
Hey, this pregnancy had an emotionally-needy third wheel way before you came along.
Is this what you do when I’m not here, make really good points?
Thank you.
Oh, hey, Bernadette, the swing comes with two different mobiles. The giraffes are pretty cute, what do you think?
At least my nose is naturally brown.
I’ll do it.
Just because you’re starving doesn’t make you an artist.
I’ll pull the van up.
Team Baby, go.
All right, hold on. I’m gonna drive like we do in India. Get out of my way, you syphilitic dogs.
Fine. What do one point three billion people know about having babies?
I love you, too. We’re good.
12 minutes.
You see, I was at the doctor’s office, the folder was right there, so I took a peek.
I’m sorry, that’s ambiguous. Is it five minutes apart starting at the top of the hour, or five minutes apart starting with the first contraction, so essentially, like, 65 minutes?
Don’t come to the hospital. We’re headed home.
You’ll be happy I did. Okay, little one, here we are back at home because you weren’t quite ready to come out yet. You wanted to make an entrance. I get it. And here’s your daddy. When he tries to tell you he used to be cool, you can see he wasn’t.
Well, this is not for me, this is for the baby. Some day she’s gonna want to see this.
I, I said she, but lot’s of things are she, boats and cars, whales, like thar she blows!
Well, okay, I’m gonna sign off now. This next part may contain some adult language.
Well, you guys have no idea how hard it is to know something like this and not say it.
You were supposed to keep that to yourself.
You’re gonna have to be quieter than that.
No. People just keep kicking me out everywhere I go.
This is not how I imagined this day going, I should be with them right now.
I know that. But to be fair, I’ve spent nine months helping Bernadette get ready for this baby, and Howard spent five minutes conceiving it. And I’m being generous.
And, and the worst part is that they kicked me out and let Stuart stay.
For God’s sake, just drive in the knife, why don’t you.
Well, you’re all thinking it, I’m the only one who hasn’t done anything worthwhile.
Oh, yay, I have a doctorate in astrophysics and I’m every bit as awesome as the pasty-faced owner of a comic book store.
Excuse me.
Hey.
Oh, great, now I can say things like I can’t believe you’re breaking up with me, why are you breaking up with me? Yes, I’ll still help you move.
I bought the first one, it didn’t fall.
Congratulations.
Really?
You hear that, Stuart? I’ve got a dog and a godchild, you have nothing.
Guys, she’s my goddaughter, I think I’ll know when I see her. That one.
Hello.
Oh, my God, what happened?
You know, in India when my baby brother cried like that, the servants would just take him far away so we couldn’t hear it. Not always, sometimes we’d leave.
Oh, he’s really good with her.
She’s tired, that was funny.
Oh, don’t take it so personally, maybe your baby’s just a jerk.
So how were your holidays?
Be there bright and early.
Yeah, i heard you on the baby monitor. Didn’t think you could think you could turn the theme from Walking Dead into a lullaby.
Have you tried anything to fix it?
I know. Blue shag, what were you thinking?
Did that do anything?
Hang on. No offence to her father, but he’s not an MIT trained engineer. Thinking and building is what you do.
Oh come on, we just need to be more creative. What if you didn’t step on the floor at all? Like, what if you swung on a rope from the ceiling?
Okay, um, okay, what if you rig up a pulley system and move yourself across the room in a harness?
Hold on. Yeah, that’s funny.
It looks like a map from Dungeons and Dragons.
Okay, uh, you check for squeaks, and I will mark them down.
It’s nice to think that you grew up in this room and now your daughter’s going to as well.
Why do you bounce with your hands in the air like that?
Material Girl needs ot be retired, that is your karaoke song.
Don’t do that in socks, I almost broke my neck.
Hold on, I don’t think she was impressed.
I broke up with her.
She said she didn’t want to see me any more and I found that insulting.
I don’t know, she didn’t even give me a reason.
Can we not play this game?
That’s okay, I’m fine.
I’m not a virgin, Sheldon.
It’s okay, I’m fine.
Sheldon, when I said I was fine, I meant I didn’t want to talk about it any more.
Now that Sheldon’s across the hall, have you decided what you’re doing with his old room?
Maybe I could use it to understand why women keep dumping me.
That’s actually not a bad idea. Maybe I could even get them all together, sort of like a, a focus group, to find out what’s wrong with me.
Yeah. I’m getting all my exes together in order to discuss why they broke up with me and how I can be a better boyfriend.
We are going to find out.
Well, I want information in order to improve myself.
Don’t worry, I’m a grown man. I have a thick skin.
Hey.
Okay, first off, I want to thank you all so much for coming. Howard is here to interpret for Emily, and to take notes.
Uh, heads up, both of you are named Emily, so we’ll call you red-headed Emily, and you, red-headed Emily, Junior.
Okay, uh, let’s get things started. Um, why don’t we go around the room, say your name, and why you broke up with me. Want to kick it off?
I did do that. I can be insensitive to other people’s boundaries. Howard, would you write that down?
Uh, next?
Okay, new rule, everybody only gets one. Uh, next?
Oh. He’s here to support me, so anything you have to say you can say in front of him.
Howard, get out.
Okay, that’s enough. Write down loving son.
Yes, I’ll take you back.
Well, that’s hard to hear, but I’ll still take you back.
Would you stop writing? Wait, so, did all of you go on to better relationships after me?
What did she say?
Okay, maybe we should just end this.
Thank you, Howard.
Well, that was a waste of time. I’m such an idiot.
Maybe I won’t settle down. Maybe I’ll just play the field.
Dude, come on.
I appreciate the offer, but if things don’t work out with you two, I’m swooping in on her like a vulture.
But theoretically, if you and I were in a gay relationship, how would we tell people? Like, print up announcements?
Well, I want to make sure we get invited to all the parades.
Yeah. Well, if you want to march in a fishnet crop top, you better lay off that dip.
It was for the girls. They broke up with me, I don’t care if they get fat.
Oh, you want to bet? You never exercise.
Very mature. Keep eating like that, you’re gonna have a heart attack.
You’re such a child.
Hey, I was being hypothetical, okay? I would never marry you.
Yeah, right. Wait, is it rose gold? Actually, don’t tell me, I want to be surprised.
You know, I just read a study that suggests new mothers are better at sensing emotions for up to two years.
Uh, the one at Caltech has a crazy wait list. I warned you, a lot of people apply when they’re still pregnant.
Whoa. Just trying to help.
No, no. I will take care of it.
While I’m gone, you can think about how mean you were to me.
Okay. You ladies have fun tonight.
Under the careful supervision of her godfather.
Like I said, you ladies have fun.
Got it.
I would never call Howard.
Yeah, great. Um, I’ll put food in her top half, you deal with whatever comes out the bottom.
Don’t worry. Everything’s fine.
I don’t need your help deciding when we need help!
Yes, so, I was just warming up some milk for Halley, and I thought it smelled a little funky, so I checked the date that you wrote on the bottle, and it says Flerbsday.
How is that a T?
Okay, yes, I will err on the side of caution and defrost a fresh batch.
Fine, you drink it.
Oh, of course we can. Uh, you girls have a good time. She said I was in charge.
What else are you gonna do with it? Put it in your coffee?
Nothing to worry about. She’s just been crying for a little while, and I was wondering if you had any tricks to get her to sleep.
She was blowing a spit bubble. It was adorable.
Oh, okay, false alarm. Little parenting tip, sleeping babies hate flash photography.
And j, and just so you know, my favourite movie is Princess Bride.
Good, good. Uh, listen, I just wanted to let you know when you get my credit card bill, it might be a little high this month.
Oh, Daddy, you’re so rich and funny.
Uh, well, I was dating a woman at the university, but we broke up.
I know you are. That’s why you just bought me a new iPad. And before you start, I am not interested in you arranging a marriage for me.
You did?
What are you saying, that you’re giving up on me? What kind of father gives up on his son?
I can’t believe what I’m hearing. This is deeply hurtful.
Hello.
Yeah, I saw something for Halley and I couldn’t resist.
Yeah, it’s a crushed velvet baby cape.
Yeah, it was. But it’s my father’s money and I’m mad at him.
It turns out he doesn’t care if I’m married or if I’m single. He’s basically given up on me.
It is. He stopped trying to find Indian girls for me to marry.
Thank you, Penny.
My father thinks the reason I can’t make a relationship work is because I’m spoiled.
Just because he helps me out doesn’t automatically mean that I’m spoiled.
Okay, I’ll tell you, but please don’t judge me. He pays for my car, my rent, and my credit cards.
But Bernadette makes more money than Howard. She basically supports him.
Oh, please. Look in the mirror. You both look ten years older than I do.
I don’t want to say.
I don’t want to say because I don’t know how much it is.
My father pays for it. Do you know how much your rent is?
Well, then double it, because my building’s a lot nicer than this dump.
Not really.
The housekeeper does the shopping.
I’m spoiled? Your baby has a cape that costs $300.
I thought we were best friends?
Guys, I’m not living in a garage.
Thank you, but if I’m gonna just take advantage of my friends, I might as well keep on relying on my father.
Hello, Father. We need to talk.
I have come to an important decision. I will not be accepting your money any more. I’m a man, and I can take care of myself.
Yes, that is wonderful. You will no longer be able to accuse me of being spoiled.
Dad, I’m trying to tell you off, and you’re ruining it with your delight and relief.
Yeah, that’s right. Keep asking yourself that. But I still love you very much, so don’t cut me out of the will.
Yeah, I’m making a bunch of changes. This morning, I fired my dog walker.
Uh, I gave her an Imodium. That’s tomorrow’s problem.
How bad is it?
Are you serious?
I have a card for emergencies that I pay for myself.
That’s a penguin I sponsor. They’re losing their homes to global warming, and my car gets, like, seven miles a gallon, so I felt bad.
It’s intimate waxing. Quit looking at that.
Like a business manager?
Okay, Sheldon. Yeah, I’m putting you in charge of my finances. I will not spend another penny that you don’t authorize.
I can’t believe Penny’s gonna get to go, and I’m not.
Okay, you’re right, I got myself into this, but I’ve never missed a Comic-Con with you guys.
Go ahead, make jokes. I don’t know why you think you’re going to Comic-Con, you just had a baby.
Well, so? So you think Bernadette’s just gonna let you jet down to San Diego for five days and leave her alone?
But you charged me hundreds for this stuff.
But I need to earn enough money so I can go to Comic-Con.
I have no choice.
Really? I’ll do anything.
What’s with the gloves?
I’m looking to make extra money and was wondering if you had any chores I could do.
Yeah, you’d think. Ooh, maybe I could sell my blood and sperm.
Here, let me help you.
Oh, Double Stuffed Oreos, I remember when I could afford you.
Stay, I’ll get her.
That’s fine. She and I can cry together.
Thank you, but it doesn’t look like I’m going to Comic-Con this year.
What’s this?
This is so generous of you, I, um, I don’t know what to say.
As much as I appreciate this, I can’t accept it, okay? Halley’s my goddaughter, I don’t take care of her for money.
It doesn’t matter. I’m not keeping this. I’m trying to pay my own way and be responsible. Taking handouts won’t help that.
I’ve been plenty of times. If I miss one, it’s fine. I’m a big boy.
That would be amazing. I was literally just looking at my moving boxes, trying to pick one to live in.
I cannot thank you enough.
Uh, yeah. Why do you ask?
Oh, my God, that’s so generous.
I really appreciate it. Uh, can you hold on one second? Hey, so, Howard, what’s the bathroom situation gonna be?
But I can use the downstairs bathroom, right?
Cool, cool, yeah, yeah, hold on one second.
Hey, what’s it like sharing a bathroom with Penny? Is there hair everywhere? Does she use your loofah?
Okay, well, if I move in, you can’t use mine. Hold on a second. Hey, Howard, uh, how’s the Wi-Fi in the garage?
Well, to be honest, Leonard’s on the other line, and he offered me their spare bedroom.
But you made the garage sound so fun.
One second. Okay, I think we’re close. How do you feel about a mini-fridge in my room?
Oh, uh, hi, Penny. Yes, please.
Can I get anyone anything at all?
It’s the least I can do for helping me carry my stuff up.
Anyway, thanks again.
Thank you, Sheldon. It’s a blank notebook.
This means a lot.
You’re right, I am humiliated. Thanks for pointing it out. You’re such a jerk.
What do I have to be happy about? My life’s a wreck.
Maybe moving in was a bad idea. I haven’t been here one day, I’m already causing problems.
Thank you, but how do I know you’re not saying that just to be nice?
That’ll do it.
Sheldon, she’s fine.
Thank you. I appreciate that.
Howard? Howard? It’s me, it’s just me.
Well, I texted you, but you didn’t respond. Leonard and Penny were arguing.
I’m sorry, guys. Sheldon was upset, Leonard and Penny were fighting, I just wanted to go some place where I wasn’t causing problems.
Can I just stay in the garage?
Thank you.
Well, didn’t think this is where my life would be.
You know, we’re both down on our luck. Maybe you and I should try to get a place together.
Wouldn’t you feel better about yourself if you were more independent?
No, you see, I’m doing this so I can stop being spoiled and, you know, grow as a person.
Don’t you even feel a little bad sponging off your friends?
Well, no offence, but I didn’t go to art school. I have a PhD in astrophysics.
I just never want to be a burden on my friends.
But I also upset Sheldon, and he’s not gonna want to come over if I’m there.
I appreciate it, but I think staying with Leonard and Penny makes more sense for everyone.
And just so you know, it’s only temporary. I’m not gonna get too comfortable.
You know, downward-facing dog comes from the Sanskrit phrase adho mukha shvanasana.
Downward-facing dog.
Hey, we wrote the Kama Sutra. If it involves butts, there’s a word for it.
It’s my fault. I asked Penny to do yoga with me.
Hey, can I ask you a favour? Would you mind taking Cinnamon for a walk?
Bye, Cinnamon. Be a good girl.
Okay, and tree pose.
The bigger question is, what are you gonna eat with that spoon? You didn’t get any food.
Yeah, me, too.
It’s nice to see you taking an interest in Amy’s work.
So did you confront Jennifer?
Paul.
Don’t worry, Jerry won’t be fooled by that type of behaviour.
It didn’t work for Randy, it didn’t work for Tina, it sure as hell isn’t gonna work for Jennifer.
With your sales record, you have nothing to worry about.
I can actually feel the toxins being pulled out of my skin.
Oh, well, then I can actually feel the moisture going into my skin.
I thought someone looked brighter and tighter.
You want to go shopping?
Now, take a sip, swirl it around your mouth, and try to notice the flavours, the tannins, the textures. Well?
Yeah. You know, the last couple of weeks have been pretty rough, but, uh, staying here with you guys has really helped take my mind off of it.
When did he leave?
No, no, Penny, don’t dismiss his feelings.
Hang on, I’m not saying that his feelings aren’t crazy. I just don’t want him to think that this isn’t a safe place.
I don’t want to speak for Leonard.
But when you’re insecure, no amount of external validation can ever make you feel safe.
I’m a good listener.
I’m sorry. What did you want to say?
Guys, before this gets ugly, remember, the winner gets Sheldon.
Are you asking because you want me there or out of pity? Actually, never mind, don’t answer. I’d love to.
Genius. I was gonna say, why does anyone think Sheldon’s a genius? But I didn’t.
Wait, you don’t remember?
I don’t know where your pants are, but we did find your underwear in a pot on the stove.
It’s right here.
Nope, pants in the microwave, no notebook.
You’re not going to prison.
Wait a minute. Hey, let me see your phone.
Well, it’s, it’s possible it was tracking everywhere you went.
Yeah, it depends on the privacy settings.
Hang on, I can see every place you went.
Uh, you were in the building, you were at the university, then you were somewhere on Colorado Boulevard.
Wait, hang on. Did you go to a cowboy bar?
Does this place look familiar?
These here parts?
Bye.
He took the day off.
Yeah.
Oh, quick, sit.
Well, I’m very happy for you.
Can’t believe Bert has a girlfriend and I don’t.
Oh, grow up.
Oh, hey, guys. Come in.
So how did you two meet?
That’s nice. I haven’t had much success meeting people online.
I’d love a personal trainer. I haven’t seen my abs since they opened a Shake Shack on my drive home.
You should send that to Jimmy Fallon.
Hey. Yeah. Hey, sorry if last night was awkward.
I think it shows a lot of character.
Hey, what’s up?
No, you didn’t. Okay? Look, Bert, when I had money, I dated lots of girls who weren’t right for me. And then I gave up my money, and now I’m alone and living with my friends, and somebody else should probably talk now.
I feel bad for Bert.
Sheldon, what did Amy have that attracted you?
Really?
Sheldon, get over here and help.
That’s it, we’re dead.
Well, I know how you feel. I tried one of those electronic Japanese toilets, practically shot myself across the room.
You know who’s a super-ager? Jennifer Lopez. Like, what is her secret?
Like J-Lo’s hair.
If you really want to challenge yourself, you could learn to speak Hindi.
Could you say that in English? I actually, I never learned Hindi.
Hey.
Okay. Shall we? Oh, my God. It’s light, it’s flaky, it’s buttery. You don’t need to have sex with him, just eat one of these.
You want a real challenge, try keeping me from eating more of these.
Damn it, he’s good at that, too.
Why did you even go to dinner with the guy?
Well, he is much more attractive than Leonard.
I disagree. Penny is a strong, independent woman. The more you try to control her, the more she’ll push back.
Oh, no, she’s gonna leave you for someone, might as well get it over with.
Without me.
Without me.
I may be moving out soon. I think I found a place to live.
Really? You kept sending me apartment listings.
Bert has a room for rent.
Uh, no, it’s, uh, pretty private, actually, it’s over his garage. So the only time I’ll see him is when he pulls his car in, does his laundry or practices drums in my dining room.
Congratulations.
I am, but I’ll miss you guys.
You could try saying that without smiling.
Why?
Come on, Sheldon. Amy’s only gone for a few months. And now that I’m moving out, your old room is empty, so you can stay there whenever you want.
Yeah, sure.
Well, here’s your key back.
As soon as I have the place set up I’m gonna have you guys over.
I really can’t thank you enough for taking me in. You know, I was in a pretty low place in my life.
Anyway, uh, as I was saying, I was at a pretty low place in my life and, uh, if it wasn’t for friends
I can’t compete with that. Bye.
How are you doing with…
It was a tutorial. And yes, I’m happy to keep Sheldon company.
Oh, why does he need a ladder?
Hi. Oh, let me bring a chair for you.
What just happened?
So what do you guys think that’s about?
Do you see the way she’s looking at him?
I keep telling you, close the bathroom door.
Which is?
Can you even eat those things?
Sounds like a lot of work.
Uh, well, she’s single, so if somebody else asks her out and she says yes, then we know she’s not into Sheldon.
Actually, I was going to suggest me.
Dr. Nowitzki. Good to see you.
May I join you?
Good to see you.
She’s clearly having a working lunch and preferred to eat alone.
I could have made her very happy.
I made a play for her and she shot me down.
Like, really, a million?
Thank you.
I think you made that very clear.
We’re being ridiculous. There’s no way a woman that attractive is trying to seduce Sheldon Cooper.
No. I haven’t played the race card yet.
Whatever.
