Oh, hi!
Hi?
Oh, that’s nice.
Oh, okay, well, guess I’m your new neighbour, Penny.
Hi.
Hi.
Thankyou, maybe we can have coffee sometime.
Great.
Bye.
Hi.
Hi.
Oh, you’re inviting me over to eat?
Oh, that’s so nice, I’d love to.
So, what do you guys do for fun around here?
Okay, thankyou.
This looks like some serious stuff, Leonard, did you do this?
Wow.
So you’re like, one of those, beautiful mind genius guys.
This is really impressive.
Holy smokes.
Uh, do you guys mind if I start?
So, sit next to me.
What’s the difference?
Do you want me to move?
So, Klingon boggle?
Um, me, okay, I’m Sagittarius, which probably tells you way more than you need to know.
Participate in the what?
Oh, yeah, a lot of people think I’m a water sign. Okay, let’s see, what else, oh, I’m a vegetarian, oh, except for fish, and the occasional steak, I love steak.
Oh, yeah, I’m a waitress at the Cheesecake Factory.
Oh, anyways, I’m also writing a screenplay. It’s about this sensitive girl who comes to L.A. from Lincoln Nebraska to be an actress, and winds up a waitress at the Cheesecake Factory.
No, I’m from Omaha.
I know, right? Okay, let’s see, what else? Um, that’s about it. That’s the story of Penny.
It was. Until I fell in love with a jerk.
Oh God, you know, four years I lived with him, four years, that’s like as long as High School.
I just, I can’t believe I trusted him.
You want to know the most pathetic part? Even though I hate his lying, cheating guts, I still love him. Is that crazy?
Oh, I’m so sorry, I’m such a mess, and on top of everything else I’m all gross from moving and my stupid shower doesn’t even work.
Really? Would it be totally weird if I used it?
Thanks. You guys are really sweet.
Hey, is there a trick to getting it to switch from tub to shower. Oh. Hi, sorry. Hello!
Penny. I work at the Cheesecake Factory.
I’m sorry?
Okay. Thanks.
Hey, Leonard?
Um, okay. Can I ask you a favour.
It’s okay if you say no.
It’s just not the kind of thing you ask a guy you’ve just met.
Uh, I’m sorry, do you speak English?
Really, why?
Wow, cool tiger.
Uh, sounds interesting.
Oh, I don’t think I’ll be able to stop thinking about it.
Oh, my God, what happened?
I’m so sorry, I really thought if you guys went instead of me he wouldn’t be such an ass.
Really, thank you so much for going and trying you’re, uh, you’re so terrific. Why don’t you put some clothes on, I’ll get my purse and dinner is on me, okay?
Sure.
So?
So?
Any ideas Raj?
That sounds like fun.
Hey Leonard.
Am I interrupting.
Sounds like you have company.
Well, you know, it’s the Cheesecake Factory. People order cheesecake, and I bring it to them.
Yeah, call it whatever you want, I get minimum wage. Yeah, anyways, I was wondering if you could help me out with something, I was….
Oh. Okay, great, I’m having some furniture delivered tomorrow, and I may not be here, so…. Oh! Hel…hello!
I’m sorry?
No, I haven’t.
Yeah, I probably won’t, but… Hey Sheldon.
Hey Raj! Still not talking to me, huh?
Yeah, yeah, if it gets here and I’m not here tomorrow could you just sign for it and have them put it in my apartment.
Great, here’s my spare key. Thank you.
Yeah?
A marathon? Wow, how many Superman movies are there?
Yeah, I do like the one where Lois Lane falls from the helicopter and Superman swooshes down and catches her, which one was that?
Yes, I know, men can’t fly.
I’m just going to go wash up.
Great. Was it hard getting it up the stairs?
Oh, great, thank you again .
What’s he talking about?
I don’t get it.
Give me back my key.
Do you understand how creepy this is.
In my apartment, while I was sleeping.
And what kind of doctor removes shoes from asses?
God!
Stay away from me.
Hey Raj. Hey, listen, I don’t know if you heard about what happened last night with Leonard and Sheldon, but I’m really upset about it, I mean they just, they let themselves into my place, and then they cleaned it, I mean can you even believe that? How weird is that?
You know, where I come from, someone comes into your house at night, you shoot, okay? And you don’t shoot to wound. I mean, alright, my sister shot her husband, but it was an accident, they were drunk. What was I saying?
It’s obvious that they meant well, but I’m just, I’m having a really rough time, like I said, I broke up with my boyfriend, and it’s just freaking me out.
I mean, just because most of the men I’ve known in my life happen to be jerks, doesn’t mean I should just assume Leonard and Sheldon are. Right?
That’s exactly what I thought. Thank you for listening. You’re a doll.
Hi.
What’s going on?
Leonard.
Guys, seriously, I grew up on a farm, okay, I rebuilt a tractor engine when I was like twelve, I think I can put together a cheap Swedish media centre.
Well, uh, it looked pretty good in the store.
Hey guys, I got this.
Guys, this is actually really simple.
Guys, it’s hot in here, I think I’ll just take off all my clothes.
Okay, this place does look pretty good.
Um, no, hi Leonard, this is Doug, Doug, this is my neighbour Leonard.
Is, is everything okay.
Thank you, I’ve got to talk to that mailman.
Okay, well, thank you, again.
Uh, do you mean dinner tonight?
Supper?
Uh, six thirty’s great.
Yeah, I like hanging out with you guys.
You know, Sheldon, Howard, Raj, who all’s coming?
Okay, whatever, it sounds like fun.
Six thirty.
It’s fine.
No, six thirty’s great.
Why?
So are the rest of the guys meeting us here?
Ooh, my uncle just had a colonoscopy.
How?
So, what’s new in the world of physics?
Really, nothing?
Ah. Well I’m sure things will pick up.
Oh, uh, not much. We do have a chocolate key lime that’s moving pretty well.
Doug? Oh, yeah, I dunno, I mean, he’s nice and funny, but…
I’d like a drink.
Okay, well, you know, it’s just me. I’m still getting over this break-up with Kurt, and this thing with Doug would be just rebound sex.
It’s just, it’s my pattern. I break up, then I find some cute guy, and then it’s just thirty six meaningless of… well, you know.
No, it’s usually over a weekend, and trust me, you do not feel good after it.
Emotionally.
How?
Wow, centrifugal force!
Are you okay?
No.
Are you sure you don’t want to go to the emergency room?
I know, but you did throw up. Isn’t that a sign of a concussion?
Okay.
Oh, no, it’s fine, you got most of it out the window.
Yeah, me too. Um, good night. Leonard?
Was this supposed to be a date?
Okay, I was just checking.
I’m sorry?
Four dozen?
Okay, one more time?
Oh, yay!
How come you didn’t go into work today.
So you got canned, huh?
Well, maybe it’s all for the best, you know I always say, when one door closes, another one opens.
No, no, I meant…
Never mind.
We’re fine.
Oh, sure I am.
120?
Well, yeah.
Let’s say 4,390.
Thank you.
Uh, no, no not really. Listen, didn’t you say you needed some eggs.
Oh, okay, well maybe you should start heading on out then.
Interesting.
No, I mean what you find enjoyable.
What now?
Well, maybe that’s what I was going for.
Oh, I don’t know Sheldon, it’s going to take me a while to recover from all the fun I had today.
What?
You want me to buy thirty years worth of tampons?
Okay, I’m not talking about this with you.
Are we so sure that’s a bad thing?
Has Shelly ever freaked out like this before.
What happened?
Oh my God, this is the best cobbler I’ve ever had.
Love?
Hi, you guys ready to order?
I’ll be back.
Alright, my boss says you either have to order, or leave and never come back.
A shower.
Alright, thank you, and Sheldon.
Well, it’s all good.
Uh, which one, the Classic Burger, the Ranch House Burger, the Barbecue Burger or the Kobe burger?
The Barbecue Burger is like the Big Boy.
Because you are not at Big Boy!
Howard, I’ve asked you not to do that.
Oh, wow, a girl scientist.
Yeah, you too. Leonard, I didn’t know you played the cello?
Really? I’m actually not that into music. So hey, your friend’s really cute, anything going on with you two.
Oh, that’s too bad, you guys would make a cute couple.
I’m sorry?
Okay, sweetie, I know you think you’re explaining yourself, but you’re really not.
Well what?
Oh, come on, you went to college.
Alright, look, a tie on the doorknob usually means someone doesn’t want to be disturbed because they’re, you know, getting busy.
Well, either that or he’s lost his tie rack and gotten really into Bryan Adams.
We really shouldn’t be standing here.
Oh, come on, you know, Leonard’s had girls over before, right?
Wait, you had to leave the state because your roommate was having sex?
So, do you know who’s in there?
Hmmm. Good for him. Good for Leonard. Okay, night.
What’s the matter?
Gee, Sheldon, you’re asking the wrong girl. I’m usually on the other side of the tie.
Oh, hey Leonard.
So, how’s it going?
Just pretty good, I’d think you were doing very good.
Well, a little bird told me that you and Lesley hooked up last night.
So, is it serious, do you like her?
Alright, well, I’ll talk to you later, but, I am so happy for you Leonard.
So, how’s everything.
Really, oh yay!
Um, I don’t know, a psychiatrist? So hey, how are things with you and Lesley?
Oh, oh that’s too bad. Well hey, don’t worry, I’m sure there is someone out there who is just right for you. .
So, how was paintball, did you have fun?
Okay, um, oh hey, I’m having a party on Saturday so if you guys are around you should come by.
Yeah.
Well, there will be boys, and there will be girls, and it is a party. So, it’ll just be a bunch of my friends, we’ll have some beer, do a little dancing…
Are you sure? Come on, it’s Halloween.
Well, yeah.
Um, yeah, Halloween.
As usual, I’m not following.
Sure.
Fine.
Of course.
Anything you want, okay? Any costume you want. Bye.
Late? It’s 7:05.
Well, yeah, when you start a party at seven, no-one shows up at, you know, seven.
Yes. Yes it is. Okay, well, um, come on in.
Probably, but in their own homes.
The parade?
Oh, Sheldon, I’m sorry but there aren’t going to be any parades or judges or prizes.
No, come on, it’s going to be fun, and you all look great, I mean, look at you, Thor, and, oh, Peter Pan, that’s so cute.
No you don’t. Oh, hey, what’s Sheldon supposed to be.
Oh, sure, I see it now, the Doppler Effect. Alright, I’ve got to shower, you guys um, make yourselves comfortable.
Oh, hey guys. You having a good time?
Alright Kurt, be nice.
Kurt!
Of course not, no, he’s not, you’re not, right Leonard?
Okay, Kurt, please.
Kurt, put him down this instant.
I don’t care, I’m finishing it, put him down.
Leonard, are you okay.
Oh, okay, alright, well thank you for coming.
Hey, I just wanted to make sure you’re okay.
I’m so sorry about what happened.
Yes it is. That’s why I broke up with him, he always does stuff like that.
Well, I ran into him last week and, he was… just, all apologetic, about how he’s changed, he was just going on and on and I believed him, and I’m an idiot because I always believe guys like that and… I can’t go back to my party because he’s there, and I know you don’t want to hear this and I’m upset and I’m really drunk and I just want to…
God, what is wrong with me.
Gah, I’m not perfect.
You really think so, don’t you?
Yeah.
Just…. a lot.
It might. Boy, you’re really smart.
Leonard, you are so great. Why can’t all guys be like you?
I should probably go.
Hey guys.
No you won’t. Uh, can I hide out here for a while.
Well, there’s this girl I know from back in Nebraska, Christie, well anyway she called me up and she’s like “Hey, how’s California,” and I’m like “Awesome” ‘cos, you know, it’s not Nebraska, and the next thing I know she’s invited herself out here to stay with me.
Anyway, she got here today, and she’s just been in my apartment, yakkety-yakking about every guy she’s slept with in Omaha, which is basically every guy in Omaha, and washing the sluttiest collection of underwear you have ever seen in my bathroom sink.
He really needs to dial it down.
Well, she was engaged to my cousin while she was sleeping with my brother, so she’s kind of family.
No, yeah she’s definitely a whore. I mean, she has absolutely no standards, this one time, she was at… where’s Howard?
Ugh, I cannot believe Christie let Howard into my apartment.
Hey, if you guys need a fourth, I’ll play.
Why?
Oh, what, what, what?
Okay, I got this, lock and load boys.
Ha-ha, there goes your head again.
Cover this, suckers. Ha-ha-ha!
Yeah, so is Sheldon.
Wait, wait, Sheldon, come back, you forgot something.
This plasma grenade. Ha! Look, it’s raining you!
Gosh, he’s kind of a sore loser, isn’t he?
Well, it’s been fun.
Or we could just have a life.
Good night, Leonard.
As usual, nice talking to you Raj
Um, well, Howard and Christie are… kind of… hooking up in my bedroom.
Look, I grew up on a farm, okay, from what I heard they’re either having sex or Howard’s caught in a milking machine. Do you mind if I stay here tonight?
Uh, the couch is good.
Hu.. what?
How am I supposed to plan my bodily functions?
Thanks Leonard.
I’m listening.
Why?
I’ll risk it.
Anything else I should know.
That’s okay.
Got it.
Thanks.
Uh, what time is it?
I slept all day?
What the hell is your problem?
Why do you people hate sleep? Are you wearing my robe?
That’s okay, keep it. Where’s Christie.
Y-you used my loofah?
You can keep that too.
Uh, so Christie, what are your plans?
Yeah, no, I meant plans to find some place to live. Other than with me, not that I don’t love having you, but it’s… a little crowded.
Look, Howard, I know her, okay, she’ll have sex with anyone as long as they keep buying her things.
Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. So?
She’s not my friend. Friends do not get their friends care bears all sweaty.
Oh, that’s so sweet. But I’m going out dancing with a girlfriend.
Well, for Penny it’s dancing night.
No.
Look, why don’t I play with you guys tomorrow?
Alright, now Sheldon, you and I are about to have a problem.
Alright fellas, I gotta go. Good luck.
Told yah! .
I need some guinea pigs.
I swear to God, Sheldon, one day I’m going to get the hang of talking to you.
Well, I finally convinced the restaurant to give me a bar tending shift, so I need to practice making drinks.
So Leonard, how about it?
Okay, here you go, Leonard, one tequila sunrise.
Okay, Raj, what’ll it be?
Uh, how about a grasshopper. I make a mean grasshopper. Okay? Good. Coming up. Sheldon, what are you going to have?
Okay, can you please order a cocktail, I need to practice mixing drinks.
That’s, um, rum and coke without the rum.
So coke.
There’s a can in the fridge.
Then swim to Cuba.
Okay, Raj, here you go. Alright, who’s next?
Okay, you’re cut off. Anybody need a refill?
A… are you talking to me?
Okay, sweetie, I think that’s the grasshopper talking.
Okay, calm down, no-one can make you get married. Why don’t you just meet this girl and, see what happens.
Um, Raj, honey, you say you can’t talk to women but… you’ve been talking to me.
I’m fine.
Okay, if you’re going to drink on this date just promise me you won’t overdo it.
Yeah, that. Uh, why don’t you bring her to my restaurant when I’m tending the bar so I can keep an eye on you?
Drinks do not work that way.
Okay.
Oh, I’ll wedge it right in there.
I know the reason.
Oh, maybe a couple of virgin cuba libres that turned out to be kind of slutty.
Hey, you do your experiments, I do mine.
It’s a little loud.
Okay, thanks.
Yeah, you turned your stereo down with your laptop.
Oh. You know you can just get one of those universal remotes at Radio Shack, they’re really cheap.
Boy, that’s brilliant, but I’ll see you.
No.
Huh, well that’s handy. Um, here’s a question, why?
Well, wait, wait, what’s on top of them.
What? Ew, stop it, no, leave me alone.
So, how’s it going with Sheldon, are you guys still not talking to each other?
Oh, hey, I didn’t know they still made corduroy suits!
Okay, well, let’s just see what else you have. Okay, here, take this, and this, and this, and these.
No, this is stuff I want you to throw out.
Seriously, don’t even give it to charity, you won’t be helping anyone. What’s this.
Uh-huh.
Oh, nice.
Here, why don’t you put these on while I find a shirt and sport-coat to match.
Well, where you going, just put them on.
Oh, are you shy?
Don’t worry, I won’t look.
Sweetie, put the pants on.
So, you know, isn’t there maybe some way you and Sheldon could compromise on this whole presentation thing.
What is this?
Oh, why didn’t you wear it at Halloween?
Okay, alright, moving on, oh, wow, a paisley shirt.
If you mean it should end up in the same place then, I agree. Is this your… your only tie?
Oh, sweetie, I don’t think it even works as one. Is this all your clothes?
The… the eighth grade?
Okay, well, I guess we’re back to the corduroy suit.
Yup. I said no, put it down.
Hey Sheldon!
Get anything good?
Oh, you know, that is so weird that yours came and mine didn’t. . It was a joke. Yup, tip your waitresses, I’m here all week.
Oh yeah, me too. Zip it, lock it. Put it in your pocket. So you and Leonard…
Little misunderstanding, huh.
Anyway, I was talking to Leonard this morning and I think he feels really bad about it.
Well how do you feel?
Well I’m just asking if it’s difficult to be fighting with your best friend.
Wait… what?
You should just talk to him, I’m sure you guys can work this out.
Which was?
Okay, so you absolutely should talk to him, look, I know Leonard values you as a friend, and he told me himself that without your little idea there’s no way he could have come up with this whole experiment thing.
Yeah, I mean he tried to explain it to me, I didn’t really understand it but…
Uh, well no, no, not in… not in those words.
Um, gee, the exact words aren’t written… it’s more the spirit in which it’s
You had a lucky hunch.
Uh, he… .
Bye Sheldon.
There you go.
No, no, I didn’t say better, I said less stained.
Is that all?
Oh, well, then good!
Oh, sorry, I’ve just, I’ve heard it before.
I really should have brought my own car.
Is this usually how these physics things go?
You’ll never guess what just happened.
What was that?
Alright, remember when I auditioned for that workshop production of Rent, but I didn’t get it and I couldn’t figure out why?
Well, the girl they picked to play Mimi, she dropped out and they asked me to replace her.
It’s not a big deal, just a one night showcase, but they invite a lot of casting people and agents so, you never know.
It’s this Friday at eight, you guys want to come?
Oh, too bad, well, I got to get to rehearsal, see you guys.
Do you have any idea what time it is?
What do you want?
I remember symposium.
Wait, what?
Well imagine how I’m feeling.
Thanks. I just wanted to come by and wish you guys luck with your symposium.
You know, I got to tell you, a lot of friends would let their friend go alone, but that’s not who you are, you are the kind of guy who stands by a friend when… when he has a symposium to go to.
It’s okay, Leonard
Uh-huh!
Uh-huh!
Howard, wait. Sheldon, I think we should tell them.
There’s no symposium, Leonard lied to me, isn’t that right Leonard.
It’s okay, I do, look, Leonard is helping Sheldon through a family crisis, he made up the whole story about the symposium with Dr Farmin..farm…ian
Hah, yeah! Because he didn’t want Sheldon to be embarrassed, and there is nothing to be embarrassed okay, every family in America has a relative holed up in a garage somewhere huffing paint thinner.
No, look, Sheldon’s cousin Leo escaped rehab, and he’s in a Motel 8 at Long Beach, the whole family’s going out for an intervention. Leonard is driving Sheldon down there to help him through this because he’s such a good man.
Alright you guys, good luck.
Hi. How did the intervention go.
Well, based on what you told me, I’m not surprised.
Hi Leo, how are you feeling?
No.
Oh, it was okay I guess, wasn’t a big turn out but they both really seemed to like it.
By the end. Yeah.
I’m… I’m sorry.
Yeah. Hey, do you want to come over to my place, have coffee?
I have a video of me singing last night, do you want to see it?
This is even better than you coming to the showcase, because now I get to watch you watch me.
Leo, you are a very sweet, really funny guy. You’re gonna do okay.
Did you get my mail.
Oh, better than North Dakota! I guess that joke’s only funny in Nebraska.
Boy, it’s good to be back.
Ugh, it was the worst trip, everyone got sick over the weekend.
Oh, the flu I guess.
Maybe Friday.
I… I don’t…
Oh, it’s okay, I understand.
Okay, well, thank you for getting my mail.
No, just crazy. Sheldon, what are you doing here?
How could you have gotten it from me, I’m not sick.
Shhh! Sheldon, what do you want.
You can have soup delivered.
Okay, what kind of soup do you want.
We have Chicken Tortilla and Potato Leek.
No.
Hey, where are you?
You sound funny.
Yeah, well I’m at work too, and you’ll never guess who’s here infecting my entire station.
He won’t leave, he says he’s afraid he’ll pass out on the bus and someone will harvest his organs.
Can you please come get him?
Oh, it’s okay, I didn’t really need to work today, it’s not like I have rent or car payments or anything.
Okay, well, you feel better.
Um, home, to write some bad cheques.
Sheldon, you are a grown man, haven’t you ever been sick before?
Really, never?
Studying abroad?
And there was no-one there to take care of you?
Again?
What does that mean?
Okay, sweetie, I’ll take care of you, what do you need?
Okay, ground rules, no sponge baths, and definitely no enemas.
Okay, nice and cosy, okay, I’ll see you later.
Oh, Sheldon, can’t you do that yourself?
But Sheldon….
I can’t believe I’m doing this.
Sorry.
What?
I’m sorry, honey, I don’t know it.
You rat bastard.
You deliberately stuck me with Sheldon.
Uh, it’s okay, sweetie, good news, Leonard’s home!
Sure. Raj, hug Howard.
I’m confused, did Sheldon stop giving milk?
So, you’ve got a bit of competition, I really don’t see what the big deal is.
I don’t understand, exactly how did he get any friends in the first place?
You know, I’m confused again, is he waiting, or do we get to shoot him between the eyes?
What?
Nothing. Diet coke. And yoghurt. A little nail polish.
Wow, so in your world, you’re like, the cool guys.
Zod?
I want tickets to that please.
Good afternoon, and welcome to today’s physics bowl practice round. I’m Penny, and I’ll be your host, because apparently I didn’t have anything else to do on a Saturday afternoon, and isn’t that just a little sad? Gentlemen, are you ready?
You know, it’s none of my business, but isn’t a guy who can’t speak in front of women going to hold you back a little?
Oh, thanks Raj, it’s vanilla oil.
Okay, the first question is on the topic of optics. What is the shortest light pulse ever produced? Dr Cooper.
That is correct.
Good for you, sweetie. Okay, next question. What is the quantum mechanical effect used to encode data on hard disk drives? Howard.
Right.
Okay. What artificial satellite has seen glimpses of Einsteins predicted frame dragging?
Because it’s polite.
Leonard, you said I only had to ask questions.
What did he say?
Yeah, and the bag it came in.
So, how do you feel? Nice and loose? Come to play? Got your game face on? Are you ready?
Oh, no, no, I want to. It sounds really interesting.
Sheldon. I’m just going to sit down.
I’m settling once and for all who is the smartest around here. Okay, are you ready?
Okay. Marsha, Jan and Cindy were the three daughters of what TV family? The Brady Bunch. Okay, Sammy Hagar replaced David Lee Roth as the lead singer in what group?
Van Halen. Alright, Madonna was married to this Ridgemont High alum. Oh my God, Sean Penn!
I go outside and I talk to people. Alright, here, what actor holds the record for being named people magazine’s sexiest man alive?
No.
Alright, singer who sang “Oops I Did It Again.” Okay, Tweetie Bird, taught he taw a what?
Yes. He taught he taw a Romulan.
What are you doing?
What is it?
Yeah, okay, neat, but I really got to get to work, so….
I don’t have a few minutes, I’m running really late.
You’re joking, right?
Damn, okay, I’ll just take the roof.
Zzz-zz-zz-zz! Second of all, the door to the stairwell of the other building was locked, so I had to go down the fire escape which ends on the third floor, forcing me to crawl through the window of a lovely Armenian family, who insisted I stay for lunch.
It was eight courses of lamb, and they tried to fix me up with their son.
Not done. By the time I finally got to work, they’d given my shift away. Yeah, that’s right, I’ve lost an entire day’s pay thanks to this… this…
No! I don’t want to try it, my God, you are grown men, how could you waste your lives with these stupid toys and costumes and comic books and… and now that… that…
Oh please, it’s not a time machine, if anything it looks like something Elton John would drive through the Everglades.
Pathetic. All of you, completely pathetic.
What are you doing?
Yeah, okay, neat, but I really got to get to work, so….
But, what about your time machine.
Oh, I’m scared.
Oh, Leonard.
What?
Okay, okay look, if this is about yesterday, Leonard, I am really sorry about what I said, I was just a bit upset.
No you didn’t. Look, you are a great guy, and it is things you love that make you who you are.
Really?
Oh. Wow. Good for you.
Hi Mike.
Yeah, I just have to change.
Oh, stop it! Bye guys.
Really, they have your little name label in them.
Wow, you don’t look that much alike.
Hey, good for you, Raj.
I didn’t say you were, I just said she was cute.
Sheldon, why are you ignoring your sister?
Missy, I’m going to go get my nails done. Do you want to come?
You’re welcome.
Goodbye Leonard!
Uh, pretty much, why?
Of course.
What do you want, Howard?
Missy?
Missy?
Oh, honey, is your medication wearing off?
Hey, guys, guys, some of the other waitresses wanted me to ask you something.
Yeah, that’s terrific, but what they wanted me to ask you was to cut it the hell out. Right come on guys, come on. Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you…
So Leonard, will we be seeing you on Saturday for your free birthday cheesecake?
Okay, he can have carrot cake.
he can scrape it off.
I did your horoscope, remember, I was going to do everybody’s until Sheldon went on one of his typical psychotic rants.
Blah blah blah, a typical Taurus. So, seriously, are we going to see you Saturday?
Why not?
Shuddup, yeah you do.
Uh, that’s so silly.
What was it called, “I hate my son and that’s why he can’t have cake?”
Yeah, see, that’s what kids should have.
So you’ve really never had a birthday party?
And?
Oh my God, that’s terrible.
That’s the saddest thing I’ve ever heard.
I know. I want to talk to you.
Okay, can you just let me in.
Okay, here’s the deal, we are going to throw Leonard a kick-ass surprise party for his birthday on Saturday.
He just doesn’t know he wants one because he’s never had one.
Howard, here’s the difference. The possibility exists that Leonard could have a birthday party before hell freezes over.
Anguish?
Okay, sweetie, I understand you have scars that no non-professional can heal, but nevertheless we are going to throw Leonard a birthday party.
Nevertheless we are….
Okay, here’s the deal, you either help me throw Leonard a birthday party or, so help me God, I will go into your bedroom and I will unbag all of your most valuable mint condition comic books. And on one of them, you won’t know which, I’ll draw a tiny happy face in ink.
Sheldon, do you understand the concept of blackmail?
Is that Raj and Howard?
So, what did you get the birthday boy?
Nice. I got him a sweater.
Uh, Sheldon, I didn’t see your present.
Well why not?
Well, Sheldon, you’re his friend. Friends give each other presents.
What?
It’s a non-optional social convention.
Okay, let’s do this, um, I will drive Sheldon to get a present, and Howard, you need to get rid of Leonard for about two hours.
And then Raj, you bring the stuff across the hall and start setting up.
Entertain them.
Stare at them and make them feel uncomfortable.
Alright, you know they have DVDs over there.
Sheldon, a gift shouldn’t be something someone needs, it should be something fun, you know, something they wouldn’t buy for themselves.
Well, it’s a fun sweater, it’s got a bold geometric print.
Okay, the point is, one of the ways we show we care about people is by putting thought and imagination into the gifts we give them.
Exactly.
Sure.
Oh, okay then this one.
I don’t know, the man on the box looks so happy.
Oh, I know I’m going to regret this but, what trauma?
Of course.
No?
All of them.
Yeah.
Okay, so we’re getting this one?
Okay, let’s go.
Here, buy this one. Look, it’s the one we’re getting, see, happy guy available.
Sheldon, we have to go.
You have to, we all have to be there at the same time to yell “surprise!”
Why, is Leonard okay.
Okay, I don’t need your attitude, just hold him there a little longer.
Okay, how about this. You keep him there a little longer and when you get to the party I’ll point out which of my friends are easy.
I’ve got a hot former fat girl with no self-esteem, I’ve got a girl who punishes her father by sleeping around and an alcoholic who’s two tequila shots away from letting you wear her like a hat.
Sheldon, we have to go.
Well, for one thing, we’re late for Leonard’s birthday party. And for another, I told him to call security.
Keep walking.
That’s my friend Carol. Remind me, I’ve got to introduce her to Howard.
I’m so sorry you didn’t get your party.
Happy birthday anyways.
Oh, I’ll tell you what’s going on, that stupid self-centred bastard wrote about our sex life in his blog. Drop dead, you stupid self-centred bastard! Thank you.
GO AWAY!
I don’t.
Wait.
Tell me the truth. Am I just an idiot who picks giant losers?
Okay, so I pick good guys, but turn them into losers.
Well, it’s got to be one or the other, which is it?
I really thought Mike was different, I thought he was sensitive and smart. I mean, not you smart, normal non-freaky smart.
You know, and then he just goes and has to humiliate me by writing about me on his blog so the entire world can read it.
Yeah, really, well my friends at work found it, my sister found it, judging by my email a number of prisoners at the Michigan State Penitentiary found it.
Nope, you know what, you might as well read it, everybody else has, go ahead. Oh God, I just feel so betrayed and embarrassed. I just want to crawl into a hole and die.
Oh God!
Sandwich shop.
No, at the sub shop we were only making out.
Really, do you think I overreacted?
‘Cause I do that, I do overreact. Maybe I should call Mike and apologise.
Yes. You’re right. I should just say I’m done with him.
But I never gave the man a chance to explain.
No, you were right the first time, this is a man who loves me, but in his own stupid way he was just trying to show people how he feels.
No, you did better than that, you helped me see it on my own.
I’m going over to Mike’s. Leonard, thank you so much.
I’m sorry I yelled at you. It’s not your fault.
Well, I went over to Mike’s to make up with him.
But he had already moved on.
That’s what I said to the woman who had her legs wrapped around his neck.
How could he do that.
I swear to God, I am done with guys like that. You know, macho, with the perfect body and the hair, and the money.
You know, just once, I would like to go out with someone who is nice, and honest, and who actually cares about me.
What about you what?
Are you asking me out?
Wow.
No, I know, I got that. Yeah, totally.
Yes.
Yes, I will go out with you.
Yeah. Why not, I mean, what do I have to lose?
I’m sorry. Look, do you have a second.
I was just wondering if I could talk to you? It’s about Leonard.
Well, Raj can’t talk to me unless he’s drunk, and Wolowitz is, you know, disgusting.
All I’m saying is, you know Leonard the best.
Leonard might come home, can we talk in my apartment.
No.
Okay, so, here’s the thing. I guess you’re aware that Leonard asked me out.
Oh, that’s nice. Anyhow, the thing I wanted to talk to you about is, you know, since Leonard and I have become friends, I was just… want to sit down?
Well, choose.
Alright, why don’t you just pick one at random, and then if you don’t like it you can sit somewhere else next time.
Okay. Um, here’s the thing. So, I’ve known for a while now that Leonard has had a little crush on me…
Alright, yeah, I don’t really know who they are…
Yeah, I don’t care, I don’t care. The point is Leonard isn’t the kind of guy I usually go out with.
No. What I’m saying is, Leonard might be different in a good way. Obviously my usual choices have not worked out so well.
But on the other hand, if things don’t go well with Leonard, I risk losing a really good friend. I mean, I guess he’s not looking for a fling, he’s the kind of guy that gets into a relationship for, I don’t know, like you would say light years.
Thank you for the clarification.
Right, thanks.
Not the first one I’ve made today.
Sheldon, do you have anything to say that has anything to do with, you know, what I’m talking about.
Schrodinger? Is that the woman in 2A?
Sheldon!
I’m sorry, I don’t get the point.
Sheldon, what’s the point?
Okay, so you’re saying I should go out with Leonard.
Hi.
come on in.
Thank you. So do you.
Okay, great, listen, um, maybe we should talk first.
Actually, I’ve heard far too much about Schrodinger’s Cat.
Alright, the cat’s alive, let’s go to dinner.
Oh, that’s very interesting.
Yeah, but it doesn’t really answer my question.
Do you want some.
Right.
Got it.
What are you doing?
I didn’t feel a draft.
Oh, yeah, you know what, maybe we should just slow things down a little.
No, I know, I… I know what you meant, it’s just… it’s only our first date.
Or we could just wing it.
Goodnight Leonard.
Sheldon, may I ask you a question?
Alright, I heard yes, so… okay, here’s my question, has Leonard ever dated, you know, a regular girl.
No, I meant has he ever been involved with someone who wasn’t a braniac?
How is that not a braniac?
So, do you think that if Leonard and I keep dating he’ll eventually get bored with me.
On what?
No.
No.
Okay, okay, you know, I get it, Leonard has no business being involved with a waitress slash actress who felt so insecure that she lied to him about finishing community college.
Well, he was going on and on about this college and that grad school and I didn’t want him to think I was some stupid loser.
You know, there are a lot of successful people in this country who are community college graduates.
Right, okay look, this is between you and me, you cannot tell Leonard any of this.
Yeah.
What?
Okay, look, if Leonard finds out that I lied, I will absolutely die of embarrassment.
Oh Sheldon, please, look, I’m asking you as a friend.
Well, yeah.
Oh, um, you know, I think I have the dinner shift on Friday.
You know, I’m not sure, the manager hasn’t posted the schedule yet, how about I let you know.
Also today we have a fresh caught Alaska salmon, and that’s served with a teriyaki glaze and sticky rice. Our soup of the day…
Sheldon, I’m working.
Oh, look, why is it so hard for you to keep one little secret?
Look, just forget I told you about me not graduating from community college. Okay?
Okay, look, you promised me you would keep my secret so you’re just going to have to figure out a way to do it.
What are you talking about.
He told you?
Pasadena city college?
Wow, I get it, because Dr Leonard Hofstadter can’t date a girl without a fancy college degree.
Right, but I have to have some sort of degree to date you?
So, it’s fine with you if I’m not smart.
Okay, fine, whatever, um, you guys, this is my friend Eric.
Yeah, yeah, it’s good to see you too. We should really go.
Sheldon? What are you doing?
Yeah, but why are you doing it on the stairs?
Oh. Oh, well, good for him. Yeah but, why are you sitting here, why don’t you just go to a movie or something?
Yeah, why not?
Well then don’t order popcorn.
Well why don’t you go to a coffee shop.
They have other things.
I don’t know, you know, cookies, pastries…
Yeah, sure.
Well, they have a lot in common. I mean they’re both scientists.
Okay, well I have a date too, so see ya.
No, he was some kind of scientist, let me start again. Oh, hey Leonard.
Leslie.
Okay, well, goodnight.
Had a great time, ciao
Hey, Sheldon.
Third floor tonight. Mixing it up? Oh. You know, I still don’t understand why you just don’t go to dinner or something.
Goodnight Sheldon.
Excuse me?
Okay, where is this coming from?
Your arch enemy?
Okay, I get it, I get it, I get it.
Sheldon, come back, you’re losing me.
Oh, sweetie, I’m sorry.
I know. I heard.
Oh, gee, well, thankyou for that. But, um, I think for now Leonard and I are just going to stay friends.
Sheldon, you are a smart guy, you must know…
Are you going to let me talk?
You must know that if Leonard and Leslie want to be together, nothing you can do is going to stop it.
Okay, let me put it this way, if you’re really Leonard’s friend you will support him no matter who he wants to be with.
Because love trumps hate.
Okay. Goodnight Sheldon.
Yes, I can’t get my stupid door open.
Yeah!
Dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit.
I can’t get the damned key out.
Thankyou, Sheldon.
Why? I’ll tell you why. Because today I had an audition, it took me two hours to get there, I waited an hour for my turn, and before I could even start they told me I looked too Midwest for the part. Too Midwest? What the hell does that even mean?
I know what it means, Sheldon! God, you know, I have been in L.A. for almost two years now, and I haven’t got a single acting job, I have accomplished nothing, haven’t gotten a raise at work, haven’t even had sex in six months, and just now when I was walking up those stairs a fly flew in my mouth and I ate it.
I did, and he said he’ll get here when he gets here.
No! I am frustrated because I am a failure at everything and my breath smells like fly.
No Sheldon, I’d rather sit on this freezing cold floor sobbing like a three year-old.
For God’s sake!
Sheldor?
What are you doing?
Oh.
What’s AFK?
OIC.
Oh, I see?
Oh, I don’t know. Can I see them in another colour?
Leonard, guess what, I’m a level three warrior.
Yeah yeah yeah, shhh!
Uh-huh, yeah, do I stay in the jungle or go towards the beach?
Okay. Wait, wait, where are you going?
Oh my God, a treasure chest, I’m rich!
Yeah, okay. Listen, I need to talk to Sheldon.
Okay, look, I bought the game, and I’ve been exploring the Island of Tordage but I can’t figure out how to get past the guard captain.
No, no, I’ve a bronze dagger.
Alright, alright, how do I get the sword?
Is that the place on the hill with the weird priests in front of it?
Thank you, I really appreciate this.
Don’t patronise me, just get the sword.
Right, gimme, gimme, gimme, I want to kill the guard captain. .
No danger, look, it’s just me, Penny, look, I got to level 25 and reached Purple Lotus Swamp, right?
Yeah. Leonard gave me an emergency key.
Okay, well can we go talk in the living room?
Why not?
Well, wear different pyjamas.
Okay, just tell me, is it too soon to join a quest to the Black Castle?
Yeah, yeah, by some guys in Budapest, I’m just not sure it’s the right move for my character.
Really? Boy, you’d think you could trust a horde of Hungarian barbarians.
No, Fritz, I need you on my flank. No, I don’t know German. Flankenzie, flankenzie!
Busy.
I don’t work on Mondays.
Uh, Queen Penelope AFK. What?
Yeah, get to the point, I’m about to level up here.
Yeah, jabber jabber jabber, okay boys, Queen Penelope’s back online.
Okay, I’m at the gate to the Treasury of the Ancients, I’m going in.
Got it.
22.
Oh, here come the mummies, which spell do I use? The hateful strike, or the frenzy stance?
I dumped them, they’re a bunch of wussies.
Frenzy, frenzy, frenzy, frenzy, frenzy!
What?
Oh, okay, wild adventure. Oh, frenzy stance isn’t working, die you undead mummy, die!
Thank you.
That’s on the registration?
Ooh, awesome, okay, I totally like to initiate I’m a big old five.
Yeah, Hi, listen, as long as I’m here, I’m on a quest with a bunch of noobs, they don’t know what they’re doing, we’ve got one assassin, three spellcasters and no tank.
No, no, no, no, I need you now.
Whatever, I’ll figure it out myself.
Oh my God, I need help.
I’m the dumplings.
Creepy, Howard.
Sit over there.
What do you have….
I thought the blowers were more sanitary?
Gosh, Raj, do you think you’ll ever be able to talk in front of me without being drunk? Okay, well, I’ll just, um, go eat by myself.
No, it’s okay, between him not talking, him talking and… him, I’m better off alone, so, goodbye you poor strange little man
What are you guys talking about?
And you guys aren’t going? I can’t believe you, Raj is celebrating a tremendous accomplishment and you’re not even going to be there to support him?
Come on, this is huge, Raj is going to be in People magazine. And he didn’t even have to knock up one of the Spears sisters.
Of course I would, I would be honoured.
Shame on you guys.
Oh, Raj, look at you!
Um, yeah, starting with the champagne a little early aren’t you?
Oh, I’m ready.
Um, yeah, why what’s wrong with it?
Yeah, well, this is all the donkulous you’re gonna get.
Uh, come on, good night Leonard.
Alright, come on, come on.
Yes, it’s very nice, goodnight Raj.
Yes it is.
Oh, wow, is the evening over.
Wait, meet them.
I am not your squeeze. There is no squeezing.
No, no, there’s no sowing, no squeezing, and no sucking face.
I don’t know, maybe it’s the local cuisine. Okay, well, it’s nice to meet you, just gonna set you on down over here, and I’m going to leave so, Namaste. And FYI, you’d be lucky to have me as a daughter-in-law.
Oh, sweetie, it’s okay.
Thanks for the update
Yeah, uh, I really don’t think I do.
Yeah, honey, you’ll be fine as long as you don’t do that bungee cord thing, okay?
Yes, Sheldon, we are friends.
Oh, dear God.
You know this is my day off, Sheldon.
Mm-hmm.
It’s fine, it’s been on for, like, a month.
Sheldon, it’s fine.
Uh, maybe the light’s broken.
What?
Do you have any alcohol?
Too bad.
Mm-hmm.
Well, good for Leonard.
No.
No.
How about we just have a little quiet time now?
I said, get out.
Sheldon, you know that we care about you.
You’re hurting the people around you, sweetie.
All right, come on Sheldon.
What?
Okay.
Fine.
All right!
Yeah, and I never wanted to kick Albert Einstein in the nuts. You know, I gotta ask, why didn’t you just get a license at 16 like everybody else?
Doing what?
Well, how ’bout when you were 17?
Sheldon, it’s C, just put down C.
Come on, let’s go.
I’ll hit you in the face with a pillow.
Oh.
Oh God, wait, slow, hit the brakes, hit the brakes!
Oh, yeah, no, this thing’s majorly out of order. See? Sorry.
Where you going?
Oh, are you here to see Leonard?
Dr. Sheldon Cooper?
Sheldon Cooper? Tall, thin, looks a little like a giant praying mantis?
Sheldon Cooper?
I need to see this.
Oh, come on, we’ll be quiet.
You know, like what’s his deal? Is it girls? Guys? Sock puppets?
Come on, everybody has a deal.
I’m sorry?
Okay, well, thanks for the nightmares.
What are you guys gonna do?
Yeah, I’m busy, so, goodnight.
Hey, guys, this package came for y…
Sorry. Holy crap on a cracker.
Hi. You know, you probably don’t want to go in there.
You know, the only way I could explain it would be in a therapist’s office with dolls.
Sheldon, honey, I’ve told you, it’s a small apartment, you only have to knock one time.
Get rid of her how?
Excuse me?
Okay, first of all, it is not man after man.
Hide you?
Oh, man.
Really? Well, then will you explain it to me?
Uh, yeah, no, that’s not it.
Oh, gee, okay.
Yeah, he’s a gift all right.
Um, sure, sisters. Holy crap on a cracker.
Oh, hey, hi.
Sisters?
I don’t know, it just died, I’m getting a bunch of static.
You sound just like the cable company. All right, so, shh, Tyra Banks is about to kick someone off America’s Next Top Model.
Fine.
Oh. That’s Anais, none of the other girls in the house like her.
They all live in a house together.
I don’t know. Somewhere in L.A.
Yeah, I guess.
To pay my cable bill.
Oh, good, I hate her.
Thank you.
Oh, Giselle’s not getting kicked off. It’s totally going to be Summer. What?
It’s one onion ring.
I don’t know. I was hungry? What’s the big deal?
All right. Look, I didn’t know, I’m sorry.
What?
A sports metaphor?
All right, yeah, I’ll play along. What was my first strike?
I did?
Oh, come on, everybody loves LOLcats. They’re cute and they can’t spell ’cause they’re cats.
Come on, I touched one onion ring.
Oh, honey, the buses don’t go where you live, do they?
Well, what a thrill.
Oh, jeez, you’ve got to be kidding me.
I don’t care. I’m taking a stand. Metaphorically.
Ooh, strike three.
I’m banished? What the hell kind of crap is that?
Yeah, you do that.
Shrimp Caesar salad with no almonds for the highly allergic kosher-only-on-the-high-holidays Howard, and for our suddenly back on the Hindu wagon Raj, meatlover’s pizza, no meat. Coming right up.
Oh, I didn’t tell you? You’re banished from the Cheesecake Factory.
Well, you have three strikes. One, coming in. Two, sitting down. And three, I don’t like your attitude.
Yeah, no, there’s a new policy. No shoes, no shirt, no Sheldon.
Hi.
Really? Well, that’s great.
What? I’m not going to apologize to that nutcase.
Leonard, don’t you get it? If you guys keep going along with his insanity, you’re just encouraging him.
Look, I like hanging out with you guys, but I’m not going to apologize for something I didn’t do.
That’s strike one, Leonard.
There you go, quesadilla, salad, there’s your pizza, and thanks to Sheldon’s heated discussion with my manager one barbecue bacon cheeseburger, barbecue sauce, bacon and cheese on the side.
Go ahead, eat it. I dare you
Here. Try and go online.
No, just try.
Well?
No, no, no, no, no. It is on. I am gonna introduce your friend to a world of hurt.
I don’t care, I was in junior rodeo, I can hogtie and castrate him in 60 seconds.
Time to do your laundry, huh?
I know. Every Saturday at 8:15, easy to anticipate.
I’m implying that you’re a creature of habit, and if something were to prevent you from doing your laundry on Saturday at 8:15, you might find it unpleasant. Knuckle under, my ass.
Oh, no, are all the machines taken? What are you gonna do?
Another night? Well, I guess you can try, but deep inside your heart you’ll know that laundry night is always Saturday night.
Yeah, well, your ken can kiss my Barbie.
Where are my clothes?
Yes, I left them in the washers and when I went down to get them, they were gone.
Sheldon, where are my clothes?
How the hell did you get them up on that telephone wire?
Get them down.
Never.
Look, wait, Sheldon, this has gotten out of hand, okay? I’ve done some stupid things, you’ve done some stupid things, how about we just call it even and move on with our lives?
Look, you’ve got to meet me halfway here.
Leonard, remember when I said it was on? Well, now it’s junior rodeo on.
Telephone wires can’t electrocute you, can they?
Oh, no, no, no. It is just beginning.
What’s this?
Oh, my God.
Look, I said I wanted to hurt him, but, but this?
Can I sit wherever I want? No, no, never mind, never mind, that’s, that’s not important. Sheldon, this was big of you. Thank you. I really appreciate it.
Good night, Sheldon.
Yes?
Thank you.
Understood.
Yeah, just move your stupid scooter before I pick it up and throw it in the dumpster.
Howard, didn’t you say you worked on the Mars Rover?
Yeah, when we first met, you said that if I went out with you, I could drive a car on Mars.
No. Yeah, I remember specifically. You started by asking if I was from Mars because my ass was out of this world.
Okay, where is he going?
Oh, hey.
New shirts?
Nice.
So, who’s the girl?
Well, last time you bought a new shirt was when we were dating.
Well, yeah, we did have a date.
So, who is she?
Oh, nice. A doctor doctor, or a you kind of doctor?
Well, that depends.
Is that friend Wolowitz?
Screw him. You’re fine.
Well, have you slept with her yet? You dog! Good for you.
No.
I’m nosy. See ya.
Hey, Sheldon.
I’m sorry?
What’s wrong with you? you’re freaking me out.
Please don’t do that.
So, this wasn’t the awkward part?
Oh, all right. S’u’up?
Okay, feeling the awkward now.
Yeah, Leonard told me.
To you?
Well, what about me?
Well, aren’t you sweet?
Yeah, I think she’s pretty safe.
Really?
I could think about you.
Always nice talking to you, Sheldon.
What?
This is a door knob.
Sheldon, would you like to come in?
No.
Sheldon, what do you want?
He’s having problems with Stephanie?
What?
We never got to the bedroom.
Oh, okay, all right, you know what? I’ll tell you what happened. We were young, we were very much in love, but we could only communicate through a time-traveling mailbox at my lake house.
What?
Oh, thank you.
No.
Well, thank you.
Yes.
What?
Your facebook status update. Leonard Hofstadter is in a relationship.
Seriously? You went first, after only two weeks? That’s bold.
Well, then who did?
Hi! Stephanie, right?
I’m Penny, I live across the hall. I’ve heard a lot about you.
Mm-hmm.
Nice to finally meet you, too.
So, that’s Stephanie, huh?
You know, she seems very nice.
Roommate? You guys are living together?
Are you sure?
Well, let’s find out.
Oh, sweetie, you’d be the last one to know about it. Hmm, cute dresses. I bet this looks great on you!
Okay, hmm, scented candles, fuzzy slippers, ooh, floral bed sheets?
Okay, moving on. Now, who are these guys at Disney World?
You’re going to go down swinging, huh? All right, well, we got your body lotion, your InStyle Magazine, your jewellery box.
You have a Bat Signal?
Really? What was your first clue?
Oh hey.
Yeah, sure. What are you washing? A crocodile?
Oh, sweetie, you can’t machine wash these. They’ll be ruined.
Absolutely.
Are you guys having problems?
Really?
Okay, Leonard, honey, you know, if you’re uncomfortable with the way things are going, you’re allowed to say something.
Believe me, your feelings are just as important as hers.
Just tell her you need the relationship to move at a pace that you both are comfortable with.
Sure.
You’re kidding, right?
Go! Wow.
Hey. Oh, I put your clothes in the dryer.
Your pants are ruined.
So, how did the talk with Stephanie go?
So, you told her you wanted to slow things down?
Good, good. And then what?
You had sex, didn’t you?
Nothing. Okay, well, it sounds like things are going to work out.
Come on, Leonard, you are entitled to try and make things go the way you want them to.
Yes, you don’t always have to go along with what the woman wants.
What?
Well, it’s a chance you have to take. I mean, look, if it’s meant to be, it’ll be.
I don’t know. I mean, what have women said to you when they wanted to slow a relationship down?
Yeah, that’ll slow it down.
Okay?
Okay, let me check.
Hiney?
Saturnalia?
Okay, well, thank you for that, but I got you and Leonard a few silly neighbour gifts, so I’ll just put them under my tree.
Uh-huh.
I don’t know. ‘Cause it’s Christmas?
Now, honey, it’s okay.You don’t have to get me anything in return.
Okay, you know what? Forget it. I’m not giving you a present.
Sheldon, I am very, very sorry.
Oh, hey, Leonard. Ooh, are you okay?
My God, how fast were you going?
Hi. Penny. So it’s your motorcycle?
Oh, is it okay?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, sure. So, um, Dave, how do you know Leonard?
Ha-ha. No, you’re not.
Uh, well, it’s just that the physicists I know are indoorsy and pale.
So, are you and Leonard working on an experiment together?
Uh, sweetie, sweetie, Dave was talking. You know, I love science.
Since always. Call me a geek, but I am just nuts for the whole subatomic particle thing.
Ha. Well, that’s what I am, queen of the nerds.
You know, I have always wanted to see a big science lab.
Since always.
Um,yeah, yeah, that sounds great, let me just get my jacket.
Okay. Let’s go.
Hey, Leonard. Dave was just showing me around the university. You know, this place is unbelievable!
I never said that.
Oh, shut up!
Really? We’re going to do an experiment?
It’s not an experiment! You saw what happened last night.
Yeah. Oh, can I drive the motorcycle?
Why are you yelling at me?
Dave is not smarter than you. He’s an idiot.
Because a smart guy takes the nude photos of his wife off his cell phone before he tries to take nude photos of his girlfriend.
That’s what you took from that? The guy is married!
And you, if you are so okay with the way things are between us, why are you so jealous?
Nice save, genius. Eggnog?
It’s just rum. It stopped being eggnog like half an hour ago.
Smoother than you.
Okay, Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas.
How’s your leg?
Okay, here.
Turn it over.
Yeah, he came into the restaurant. Sorry the napkin’s dirty. He wiped his mouth with it.
Well, yeah, yeah, I guess. But look, he signed it.
Okay, all I’m giving you is the napkin, Sheldon.
Here. Open it.
Yeah, and I checked. Not letting the bike fall on you while standing still is lesson one.
Okay. 101 Totally Cool Science Experiments for Kids.
Sheldon! What did you do?!
Leonard, look! Sheldon’s hugging me.
No, I think I’m just going to stay in tonight and do laundry.
Leonard?
What the hell?
Yeah, well, it almost killed me.
So, who exactly does it want to kill?
You know, since I moved last year, not all my mail has been forwarded.
How is it supposed to be a dance if I’m the only girl?
You’re a pig, Howard.
Our tango?
Look, normally I can just ignore you. I mean, I get it, you’re a little peculiar. You know, like Sheldon.
Yeah, you might be right. But back to you. I know you think you’re some sort of smooth-talking ladies’ man, but the truth is, you are just pathetic and creepy.
I am saying it is not a compliment to call me doable. It’s not sexy to stare at my ass and say, “Ooh, it must be jelly ’cause jam don’t shake like that.” And most important, we are not dancing a tango, we’re not to’ing and fro’ing. Nothing is ever going to happen between us. Ever.
Flirting? You think I’m flirting with you? I am not flirting with you, no woman is ever gonna flirt with you, you’re just gonna grow old and die alone.
Well, someone had to say it. What?
Hey.
Yeah, come on in. What’s up?
Get out.
Well, then have the robot go and get him.
His feelings needed to be hurt.
Yeah, probably with a blow-up doll.
Oh, please, how could I possibly devastate Howard?
What does that mean?
I turn into a bear?
And say what? That I didn’t mean it, because I meant it.
Oh, pthththth.
Okay, come on, that’s not fair.
Fine, I’ll go over there tomorrow.
What about her?
So, I just came by to see how you were doing.
Good. Your mom seems nice.
Okay, look. Howard, I just want to apologize for some things that I have said. About you. I’ve been informed that you have feelings. And apparently, I have hurt them. So, I’m sorry. Howard.
So, you’re okay?
Okay. Well, bye. So close
Aw, that sounds sweet.
Oh, it’s cute.
That’s great.
Oh, it’s fun.
Howard, do you think maybe sometimes you try too hard?
Well, you’d have a terrific chance. I mean, you’re smart, you’re funny, you have a cool job. You build stuff that goes into outer space.
Look, I’m telling you, I’ve known you for, like, a year and a half and this is the first time I feel like I’m talking to a real person. And you know what? I like him, he’s a nice guy.
Yes.
I do.
He slipped and fell.
Yes, now he knows what bathtubs are capable of doing when you don’t treat them with respect.
Sheldon, honey, aren’t you getting a little carried away? I mean, it’s just a toy robot.
I know, I got it. Sheldon, I’m sorry.
Thanks! I mean the e-mail doesn’t bother me as much as the vacation pictures of him in a bathing suit.
What’s up with Ichabod?
Oh really? Well, good for him.
Well, how did you guys become friends?
And you moved in anyway?
Well, what about Howard and Raj, I mean how did you become friends with them?
Well yeah, sure. When you put it that way. But it all worked out, right?
Oh come on, really?
Hello Sheldon.
What is this?
Yes. Well, that is a good question. But is this really the best way to figure it out?
Okay, question 1. Rank the following aspects of Sheldon Cooper in order of appeal. Intelligence. Ruthless attention to hygiene. Playfulness. Java applet writing?
Wait! How many questions are on this thing?
Thanks pal.
Sheldon honey, did you ever consider making friends by being, I don’t know, pleasant?
Sheldon, are you okay?
Okay. You know what? I see where this is going. I’m not one of you guys. I’m not a scientist. So just…
Eww.
Penny.
Ooh, ooh, shut the door, shut the door.
Just do it! Get inside and shut the door.
Is Leonard around?
The building manager’s showing an apartment downstairs, and I haven’t paid my rent.
It’s no big deal. I’m just a little behind on my bills because they cut back my hours at the restaurant and my car broke down.
Well the “check engine” light is fine. It’s still blinking away. It’s the stupid engine that stopped working. It cost me like twelve hundred dollars to fix it.
Yes, it occurs to me, too.
Wow, you got a lot of money in there.
Don’t be silly.
No, I can’t.
Well, yeah, but…
But what if you need it?
Really? I mean, are you sure?
Are they working on that?
Okay. Well, thank you. Oh, God, no, I can’t. Sheldon honey, I don’t want things to be weird between us.
I’ll pay you back as soon as I can.
I’m regretting this already.
Great. I hope I’m a waitress at the Cheesecake Factory for my whole life.
No.
Yes.
Oh, thanks. This must be the beret I ordered. A couple of months ago. It was back-ordered.
Okay, whatever. It’s not like I’m running up and down the streets just buying myself berets. I bought one, like, a month ago, and it was back-ordered, look, it finally arrived, all right?
Oh, my God, would you just get off my case?
Thank you, Leonard. What’s my share?
No, really, how much?
Well, which is it, ten or eleven?
What?
What are you saying? That I’m using my body to get dinner? That I’m some kind of Chinese food prostitute?
‘Cause let me tell you something, buddy, I pay my own way in this world, okay? I don’t rely on anybody! What was that about?
Here, Leonard, ten, eleven, twelve, uh, fourteen dollars.
Yes, dinner’s here, and I’m having some. I’m having takeout food.
You’re damn right it’s okay. I’ve been having leftovers at the restaurant for like four days, and I wanted something different. So sue me.
Sheldon, look, I will pay you back as soon as I can. You just have to give me more time.
She needed money. You seem under pressure. Did I not lend you a sufficient amount? Because I can give you more.
Oh, you know, you would just love that, wouldn’t you? Yeah. You would just love to open up your little snake can and throw some money at the girl who can’t pay her bills.
Going home, where I won’t be interrogated like a criminal. I forgot my fortune cookie.
Hey.
Yeah. When I didn’t pay my bill, the Department of Water and Power thought I would enjoy the ambience.
I used Sheldon’s money to pay my rent, then I had like fourteen dollars left over.
Put it back in your pocket, or I’ll find some other place to put it.
Yeah, well, that’s not really my big problem.
Yeah, I know, it’s just, this wasn’t the plan, it wasn’t supposed to go this way.
Um, waitress for six months and then become a movie star.
TV star.
Oh, no, I can’t give up my acting classes. I’m a professional actress.
That is not the definition of professional.
Oh, that’s nothing.
Well, remember Kurt?
Yeah. He got arrested for taking a whiz on a cop car.
He was drunk.
Anyway, he had a bunch of outstanding tickets and a bench warrant, so I, you know, I paid his fines.
No, but he will.
Leonard, I’m not gonna call up Kurt and ask him for money.
I don’t know, but I may have to find a cheaper place to live.
Why not?
Well, do you know anybody?
Oh, Leonard, honey, if we started living together, I wouldn’t be able to keep my hands off you.
And you thought my acting lessons were a waste of money.
Hey, is Sheldon here?
Nice hat.
Maybe if you’re working on a tuna boat.
Sheldon, here is your money. Thank you very much. It helped a lot.
No.
Well, I cut back my expenses like you said and picked up a few more hours at the restaurant, but the biggest thing was, out of the blue, Kurt shows up and gives me the money he owes me.
Yes, he said he was feeling guilty and wanted to do what was right.
Nope. I just think he’s really changed. We’re having dinner tomorrow night, and I get to wear my new beret. Bye, guys.
Fellas, please.
You found it. It’s the sound of a cat being run over by a lawn mower.
What’s that about?
It’s out of order.
I think it implies that the elevator doesn’t work.
You must be Leonard’s mother.
Uh, I’m Penny. I’m his neighbour.
Oh, nice to meet you.
Uh, why don’t you come with me. I’ll walk you to the apartment.
Yeah, sure, I guess.
Okay. You know, I’ve always been curious. What was Leonard like when he was little?
Right, okay. What was he like when he was young?
Oh, um, okay, like, five or six. Five.
Yeah, Leonard mentioned you were a psychiatrist.
Oh, well, I’m an actress.
What do you mean why?
Yeah, I don’t know what that means.
Oh, well, I had a wonderful childhood.
I know my dad wanted a boy. I just, I tried being good at sports, but I hated getting dirty!
Uh-huh, he called me Slugger until I got my first training bra, and then he just stopped playing catch with me. I wasn’t Slugger anymore. Your mother’s here!
Hey.
Your mom still here?
Come on in. Wait, wait, she’s not gonna come here looking for you, is she?
Oh, my God. What happened?
Geez, what a fun couple.
Hey, I talked to her for five minutes yesterday and I’ve been half bombed ever since.
My head, what about yours?
She was right, you know. The locus of my identity is totally exterior to me.
I mean, do you know where I was all morning? Auditioning with 50 other blondes for some stupid antidepressant commercial. And for what? So I’ll finally get my daddy’s approval?
No, they said I was too perky.
Yeah, you grabbed your penis and wouldn’t let go. Your mother told me.
A hugging machine?
Oh, that is so sad.
What?
Okay, now this time…
You’re gonna lick the salt off my neck, do the shot, and then bite the lime.
Neck, shot, lime. Okay, shot, lime.
Honey, shush, shush, shush, shush, shush.
Why would you bring that up right now?
So you’re saying you’re not having sex with me, you’re having sex with your mother?
That is the sickest thing I’ve ever heard.
Get out!
Look, I was just coming over to talk to you.
Gotcha.
Would it help?
The whole thing froze. I don’t know what happened.
How can I calm down? I’m gonna lose my whole shopping cart. That’s three hours of picking out shoes just shot to hell.
Hello, Sheldon.
Are you planning on sitting here?
Then what difference does it make?
What?
Fine. Happy?
Boy, I love him, but he is one serious wackadoodle.
Oh, thank you. You are a lifesaver.
Yeah, you know the sad thing is, it’s really not. Ooh, is this one of those paintball guns?
Oh, no, thanks. I’m from Nebraska. When we shoot things, it’s because we want to eat them or make them leave our boyfriends alone.
You think he’ll notice?
Oh, what are we gonna do?
Why do we have to tell him I did it?
Okay, okay, how about this? We tell him somebody broke in.
I’m sorry, I buy it. All those people are on drugs.
Okay, fine. Well, what if we just flip it over? There. Looks fine, right?
Oh, come on. There, butt print.
Thank you.
You know, I gotta go home and wash my hair.
Here we go.
Sheldon, I am really, really sorry, but it’s only for a week. Can’t you be a little bit flexible? Yeah, sorry. I didn’t really think that through.
Why not?
His right hand is calling him?
No. Not at all.
Come on, Sheldon. Just give it a try.
There, nice and comfy cosy. Zero, zero, zero.
Sit on the damn couch.
What do you mean, nope? What’s wrong with it?
It’s exactly the same…
You did make that up, right?
Thanks for the shoes.
What the hell?
Screw that.
Oh, I love San Francisco. I wish I was going with you.
When I go, I usually just get hammered and ride the cable cars.
Oh, my God, the George Smoot?
Of course I haven’t.
It’s kind of a funny name, though, Smoot.
Okay, now that I’ve been completely insulted, have a good flight.
Oh, cool.
Well, then why are you doing it?
Yeah, we’re putting the play on for one night in this little 99-seat theatre. Can you come? Oh, great. Do you know 98 other people that might want to come? Oh, hang on. Hello?
Just a sec. The theatre is above a bowling alley, so it’s a little noisy, but it might be the only chance I’ll ever get to play Anne Frank. And the director is brilliant. He uses the bowling sounds as, like, Nazi artillery. Okay, great, I’ll see you then. Hello?
Your dresser? Who is this?
Oh, hey, Sheldon! How is San Francisco?
Uh, no, I was talking to my friend, but what’s up?
Hey, Leonard. What’s going on with Dr. Wackadoodle?
Oh, hang on, Sheldon, getting another call.
Okay, I got a box, but there’s no key in here. Just letters.
Oh, Sheldon, are these letters from your grandmother?
Oh, look, she calls you Moon Pie. That is so cute.
Hey, Leonard. How’s the train ride?
Okay, yeah, I kind of crossed a line. Put him back on.
What up, Moon Pie?
Okay, I found the box. Now what?
Hang on. Sheldon, do you have any emotional attachment to this box?
Not yet. There it is.
Hey, Sheldon.
I know. You’re safe.
Oh, great, my rhinestones. Thank you.
What?
What is it?
Sheldon, it’s just a box of rhinestones.
It means nothing to anybody. Come here, let me show you what I’m doing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Look, look, look! I started a business.
No, I’m making flower barrettes. See? I call them Penny Blossoms. I made one for myself, then all the girls at work wanted one. Then I showed some to this lady who runs a shop in Old Town. She sells cards and homemade jewellery. She said she wanted to sell them. I said okay, and in one week, I made a $156.
Sheldon, don’t you get it? If this takes off, I won’t have to be a waitress anymore.
Another waitress.
I don’t know.
Nancy. Her name is Nancy.
Sheldon, I’m sorry about your hamburger, okay? I just don’t want to be a waitress for the rest of my life.
Fine, cheeseburger.
So, what do you think? I mean, this could be a business, right?
About twenty.
I don’t know, like, 50 cents. I’m not sure.
That’s all?
Well, I don’t have to pay taxes on this stuff.
And you know about that stuff?
Who’s Radiohead?
Sheldon, hold on. Could you maybe show me how to make more money with this?
Sheldon, wait! Will you?
Yes.
I understand.
Okay.
Oh, imagine that.
No, sorry. Wait! Please come back!
There. Done.
Pretty good, right?
A day?
That just can’t be right.
No, sorry.
Oh, God, no, no. Just please tell me what to do about it.
Okay, you know what, if I’m not allowed to be snide, you’re not allowed to be condescending.
All right, fine. How are we supposed to set up machines and conveyor belts in my apartment?
Yeah, it’s crazy, but it totally works. Look, we made this Penny Blossom in under three minutes.
Well, there are the waitresses at my work, and this cute, little shop in Old Town.
Yeah, it’s a bitch.
Ew.
I’ve got a spaghetti strainer in the kitchen.
Well, what’s wrong with my apartment?
Wait, wait, what am I going to do?
Oh, okay, cool. I’m going to take a nap.
Uh, well, it’s a little juvenile. I mean, it kind of looks like the MySpace page of a 13-year-old girl.
We do?
No kidding. Two?
Thank you, Penny Blossoms. These will be perfect to cover my bald spot. Aww, that is so sweet.
How are flower barrettes going to appeal to men?
Wait a minute, wait a minute, you want to make a hair barrette with Bluetooth?
Get out! Who needs a thousand sparkly flower barrettes with rhinestones?
Wait, wait, wait, why does it say one-day rush? Since when do we offer a one-day rush?
Yeah, but they don’t have to glue the books together. How the hell are we going to make a thousand Penny Blossoms in one day?
Okay, well, I’m gonna have to call them and cancel the order.
I just don’t see how see can pull this off.
You guys get started.
Going online to buy shoes!
So?
Nicely done.
Honey, do you want some coffee?
Come on, but if you don’t stay awake we’ll never finish in time.
Leonard, help.
Leonard?
Here, this will help.
We should have let him go to bed.
I just want you guys to know I am really grateful for your help, and for every dollar I make, I’m going to give you 20 cents.
Oh. Then never mind.
What?
Really?
Okay, well. Guess we’d better get started.
Come on. What about the living organism of the workforce and the American spirit and Jiminy Crockett at the Alamo?
Yes, yes, I know that, okay? I’m tired, I’ve had like 18 cups of coffee. The point is, if we all just pull together, we can do this. Who’s with me?
Leonard?
We’re all out.
Okay, it’s done. Look, guys, for the future, I don’t mind killing the big spiders, but you have to at least try with the little ones.
Not with a thousand condoms, Howard.
Okay, new topic, please. Hey, did you hear the people upstairs in 5A are moving out?
The people upstairs are moving out.
How else was I supposed to say it?
Sheldon, I’m sure it’s going to be fine.
Okay, honey, did you even know the people that are moving out?
Well, I’m sure the new people will be just as quiet.
You’re right, I can’t. You know what? Anyone could rent that apartment now, an opera singer, the cast of stomp, yeah, a tap-dancing pirate with a wooden leg.
I tried making it better, he wouldn’t go for it.
The horror!
Hi.
I can see.
Oh, yeah, I don’t usually dress like this. I’m going jogging.
I can start.
Thank you, Sheldon.
Oh, yeah, be careful.
Okay.
See ya. I’m dressed like a slob today, too.
Well, sort of.
I bought new clothes, okay? Is Leonard around?
Oh. all right, that’s cool, no biggie. He said he’d help me set up my printer, but I guess I can wait. What exactly is he doing up there?
Oh, they’re all up there, huh? Hmm, typical.
Okay, now I see the giant squid head.
Hey, I just wanted to bring you a little housewarming gift.
Great.
Oh, this? I’m dressed like a slob today.
Yeah.
That is so awesome.
Yeah, I know, tell me about it.
That’s why I work at the Cheesecake Factory, I’m holding out for the right part.
Uh, hey, guys, guys, you will really appreciate this, I read the best science joke on the internet. Alicia, you won’t get it, but it’s right up their alley. Anyway, so, this physicist goes into an ice cream parlour every week and orders an ice cream sundae for himself, and then offers one to the empty stool sitting next to him. This goes on for a while until the owner finally asks him what he’s doing. The man says, “well, I’m a physicist, and quantum mechanics teaches us that it is possible for the matter above this stool to spontaneously turn into a beautiful woman who might accept my offer and fall in love with me.” The owner then says, “well, lots of single, beautiful women come in here every day, why don’t you buy an ice cream for one of them, and they might fall in love with you?” And the physicist says, “yeah, but what are the odds of that happening?”
How would I know? I’m not even sure I get it.
Uh, hey, maybe when you’re done with her printer, you could set up mine. You know, like you promised a week ago.
Well, they’re all still up there.
I don’t even know why I care. I don’t care. All right, I cared enough to memorize that stupid joke, but that’s all I care.
What are you saying, that I’m threatened by Alicia? That I’m like the old queen of the hive and it’s just time for me to go?
Bees. Aaah! I just got that physicist joke.
No, no occasion, just felt like getting some Chinese chow for my peeps.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes
So, what do we got going on tonight, huh? Playing Halo watching Battlestar, drop some mentos in diet coke?
What can I say? I got my geek on, boys.
Oh, actually, that’s okay. we already have…
…chinese food right here.
I cannot believe they’re letting her just use them like that. I mean, anything she wants, they go panting after her like trained dogs. You know that just last week, she had Howard drive all the way to her uncle’s house in Orange County to pick up her TV?
Apples and oranges here, Sheldon. I’m telling you, that girl is a user, iceskating through the life on her looks, taking advantage of innocent weak-willed men, getting auditions for stupid network shows. It creams my corn.
Please.
Oh boy.
Uh, no. No, no, no, you know, congratulations, I think you’ll make a great hooker.
Um, I don’t know, I don’t think a lot.
Um, hey, hey, can I talk to you about that for a second?
Well, you know, it’s just that Leonard and Howard and Raj, they aren’t like other guys. They’re special.
Oh, let’s see, how can I explain this, um, they don’t know how to use their shields.
Yeah, you know, like in Star Trek, when you’re in battle and you raise the shields? Where the hell did that come from? Anyways, um, you know how guys like this are, so, please don’t take advantage of them.
Come on, they’re doing everything for you, because you’re leading them on.
Excuse me?
Okay, lady, you are way out of line.
Yeah, you’re out of line.
Thank you.
Well, dead whore on TV, live one in real life.
Oh hey, guys, where’re you headed?
You got me. While you’re there, could pick me up a few comics for my nephew’s birthday?
Leonard, could you pick me up a few comics for my nephew’s birthday?
I don’t know, he’s 13. Just pick out anything.
Spider-Man. Get him Spider-Man.
Leonard?
Ugh, that’s what I was trying to avoid.
Oh, what a cute, little store. Everybody’s staring at me.
Unlikely. Here, what about this one for my nephew?
Oh, great.
What’s a multiverse?
Thanks. He seems like a nice guy.
No, no, no, I just meant for… yeah.
What about the guy over there in the superhero T-shirt tucked into his sweatpants?
Excuse me.
Hi. What would you recommend as a present for a 13-year-old boy?
Oh, Hellblazer. What’s this about?
Well, if that doesn’t make me the favourite aunt, I don’t know what will. Is this me?
It’s really good.
That’s so sweet, but what if I didn’t like it?
Okay, you’ve got my number, now, give me the picture.
All right. So, um, just give me a call.
Uh, Stuart has a piece in an art show that’s opening tonight.
It’s Friday night, that means Chinese food and vintage video games, right?
Wow, Zork. Well, you guys have fun.
Oh come on. I think it’s nice that Captain Sweatpants showed up to your art opening.
Um, you know, it’s kind of early. Do you want to maybe come in for some coffee or something?
Oh, you think coffee, means coffee, that is so sweet. Come on, I think I have decaf.
Sheldon, we’re a little busy here, so…
I’ll just go look for it.
I found the decaf!
Hello, Sheldon.
Great.
Really? Are you drunk?
That’s Superman’s big ice thing, right?
Mmm, what smells so good?
Yum. Well, enjoy your big evening.
Have fun, Sheldon.
What’s wrong, Superman? Locked out of your big ice thingy?
Hang on, I think the emergency key is around here somewhere.
So, how did the beautiful mind of Sheldon Cooper forget his key in the first place.
Oh-oh. I just remembered where the emergency key is.
In your apartment.
Well, I went in there a few weeks ago when you guys weren’t home, and I forgot it there.
It’s not a big deal, I was making coffee and I ran out of milk.
Alright, Sheldon, let’s just calm down and we’ll call the building manager, he’ll come open your door, you just eat your dinner here while you’re waiting.
Yeah, why not?
Are you trying to make small talk? Oh, sweetie, you really don’t have to.
Well, uh, they shifted my schedule around at the restaurant so my hours are going to be a little different…
Oh, God, I don’t know Sheldon, are you Star Wars?
Okay, I give up, can we just do something else?
What?
Where did that even come from, did he say we were?
No, just mail, no benefits.
Why are you asking?
Well, some people just can’t handle that kind of relationship.
Excuse me?
Sheldon, I really don’t want to talk about this with you.
Of course it’s making me uncomfortable, can’t you tell?
I’m uncomfortable, Sheldon!
I don’t think the manager’s coming tonight so, here.
Well, it wasn’t the first suggestion that came to mind, but it’s the one I’m going with.
What?
Oh, alright. I will give you my bed on one condition. That you promise to zip your hole for the next eight hours.
Only if it doesn’t rhyme.
What?
Maybe that’s because your hole is still open.
Your home is twenty feet from here.
Damn it. What do you want me to do
That’s only for when you’re sick.
Come on, do I really have to?
Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur. Happy kitty, um…
Sleepy ki…
Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur. Happy kitty, sleepy kitty, purr, purr, purr.
Yeah.
Oh, you’re welcome sweetie.
Hey, Leonard.
How’s it going?
Fine. Oh, hey, can I ask you something?
You know your friend Stuart?
Well, he asked me out again and I said yes, and then I started thinking maybe I should talk to you first.
Well, does it bother you, me going out with one of your friends? ‘Cause you know, you and me…
Okay, well, that’s really cool of you.
Well, In that case, do you mind giving me some advice?
He’s very shy, how do I make him feel more comfortable around me?
Really?
Morning. What’s up?
Oh, no, thanks. I have coffee.
I really don’t want to talk about it.
I said I don’t want to talk about it.
Look, Leonard, what goes on between me and Stuart is none of your business. So just leave it alone, okay?
What’s classified?
Leonard, could you pass the soy sauce, please?
Yeah, I said Leonard.
What the hell is that?
Sheldon.
Sheldon.
Sheldon.
Sheldon.
Sheldon.
Sheldon.
What do you want?
Now, honey, I already told you, the hamburger meat is fresh and stored at a safe temperature.
What?
You’re all going?
For three months?
Excuse me.
Hey, Leonard.
Sheldon says you’re going to the North Pole.
Yeah. I’m just a little surprised you didn’t tell me.
Oh, hey, no, you don’t have to apologize. There’s no reason you have to tell me. I was just, you know, surprised.
Is he serious?
All right, I’ll see what I can do. So, three months at the North Pole. Wow, that is awesome.
Just a warning, Sheldon, the freezer locks from the outside.
Well, I got you a little going away present.
Oh, no, no, no, not just a blanket. See, it has sleeves. Yeah! So, you can, you know, be all snoodled up while you do your science stuff.
Oh, I’m gonna miss you. See you later.
Oh, Leonard, what time is it?
Okay.
Um, I don’t know. You’ll be gone and I’ll notice.
Wine, credit card and late night television are a bad combination.
That wasn’t a long hug.
Leonard, I don’t know what to tell you. It was just a hug.
Yeah.
Okay, have a safe trip.
Okay, bye. Means I wish you weren’t going.
Leonard, you’re back.
Hi!
I missed you so much.
I couldn’t even think of anyone else while you were gone.
Oh, this is ridiculous. What?
It’s great to see you too. Come on in.
Okay, can someone please tell me what’s going on here?
Is that true?
Why did you have to make him happy?
Oh, the poor thing.
Wait, wait. Aren’t you going to go talk to him?
No, you’re right, you shouldn’t talk to him. I will.
Hey. Do you want to talk?
Oh, hon… Uh… Soft kitty, warm kitty…
Oh. Sorry. I don’t know your sad song.
Well, you know, I do understand what you’re going through.
Well, no, but when I was a senior in high school, one of my friends heard I was going to be named head cheerleader. Oh, I was so excited. My mom even made me a celebration pie. Then they named stupid Valerie Mossbacher head cheerleader. Big ol’ slutbag.
Well, they’re pretty tasty.
Look, Sheldon, I just don’t think that the guys and Leonard really meant to hurt you. You know? They just told an unfortunate lie to deal with a difficult situation. Okay, you know what it’s like? Remember that scene in the new Star Trek movie when Kirk has to take over the ship, so he tells Spock all that stuff he knew wasn’t true, like saying Spock didn’t care his mom died?
Hi.
Oh, Leonard, you shouldn’t have. Oh, boy! What is it?
Are you serious?
Oh, my God. That’s the most romantic thing anyone’s ever said to me that I didn’t understand.
So, how do you know he ran away?
Well, Leonard, aren’t you going to do something?
Well, you’re not gonna go with them?
Well, wait a second, Leonard, come on, how can you not go? He’s your best friend.
No. I promise I will be here when you get back. Just go help Sheldon.
Yeah. We waited a few months. We can wait a few more days.
Go.
Uh-huh.
Sure.
I don’t know.
Leonard?
It’s weird.
What are they talking about?
Okay, yeah, well, I’m just gonna go eat my dinner elsewhere. Maybe an airplane headed for a mountainside.
Ugh, I am so embarrassed!
What did you tell them?
Fine? You said it was fine?
It was… okay.
Yeah, it’s a perfectly good word. I mean, you put it in front of dokay and you really got something. All right, look, let’s not overreact, you know? For a lot of couples, it takes time to get to know each other’s rhythms. Learn what the other person wants and likes.
No.
You know, I think this is one of those things where talking about it is not going to make it better. Want a glass of wine?
Okay. See, we should’ve done this last night, you know, have a little wine, take the edge off.
Don’t talk, just drink.
Hit me.
Peppermint schnapps.
Because I like peppermint, and it’s fun to say schnapps. Hey, Leonard?
Schnapps.
Oh, sweetie. You really can’t hold your liquor, can you?
Oh, hey, Sheldon. What you got there? A new comic book?
What do you have a safe deposit box for?
What, do they have Wii cricket now? That can’t be very popular.
Well, if it makes you feel any better, I’m not feeling so hot either.
I don’t know, empathy? Anyway, I’m just saying that you’re feeling upset about something with Howard, and I’m upset about something with Leonard.
What’s Mrs. Riley’s chicken?
Okay, forget the chicken.
No, no. You may be right about me and Leonard.
No, I mean, we can always go back to being friends.
Oh, hey.
Not a lot. Just that we always have the option of going back to being friends.
I don’t know. I mean, you have to admit things seemed simpler when we were just friends.
It would take the pressure off.
So, we’ll just be friends.
Come here.
Morning, Sheldon. Come dance with me.
Why not?
Are you fun in any of them?
All right, want some French toast?
Tell you what, next French Toast Day, I will make you oatmeal.
A homunculus?
Oh, you’re my little homunculus.
Sorry. Okay, who wants syrup and who wants cinnamon sugar?
Yes, well, I want a boyfriend whose roommate isn’t a giant pain in the ass.
You know what, I give up. He’s impossible.
Okay, so Kim the night manager went on maternity leave, and her husband’s name is Sandy, right? So get this, her replacement is a woman named Sandy whose husband’s name is Kim.
I know. What are the odds?
Ooh, Sheldon, it’s as if you don’t think I’ll punch you.
Fine, whatever. Are you finished?
Um, yeah, sure, thanks.
Oh, man, did the Kiss Army repeal don’t ask, don’t tell?
Oh, wow, you’re actually going out like that?
Uh, yeah, I think we’ll pass.
They’re gonna get beaten up at Walgreens. Oh, sorry, Sheldon, I almost sat in your spot.
Thank you.
What’s this cartoon called again?
Anime. You know, I knew a girl in high school named Anna May. Anna May Fletcher. She was born with one nostril. Then she had this bad nose job and basically wound up with three.
Oh, am I talking too much? I’m sorry. Zip.
Yes please. Oh. Hey, Kim. Yeah, I… You know what, hold on, let me take this in the hall. You’ll never guess who they got to replace you at work…
Thank you.
Of course.
Mmm, these are so good
What?
well, my new bed got delivered, if you come over and put it together, you can stay at my place.
Yeah, but if we stay there, we won’t have to be quiet.
You’re boring people sweetie.
So, what are you guys doing?
Okay. What do you watch on Thanksgiving?
Oh, you know, that reminds me, I usually go back to Nebraska for thanksgiving, but this year they’re calling it off on account of my brother’s trial.
Oh, just a big misunderstanding. You know, you’d actually like my brother, he’s kind of a chemist. Anyway, I was thinking I’d have thanksgiving here, and you are all invited.
I guess I could serve both.
Tur-briska-fil?
Raj, what about you?
Hard to believe, but go on.
Ugh, fine. But the man really needs to work on his girl issues.
Ah, it’s nice having the place to ourselves, isn’t it?
Mm-hmm. Hey, want to get a little crazy?
Let’s slide over to Sheldon’s spot a make out.
Yeah, maybe.
Yes, we know.
Hey, I happen to love this movie.
Leonard, honey, you don’t have to say thank you every time we have sex.
Oh, kill me.
See, if you had killed me when I said kill me, I wouldn’t have had to hear that.
Do something.
That’s great.
Are we terrible people?
Get him, bring him back.
Yeah.
Um, I have a question.
Okay, I’ve got another question. When does this get fun?
Which one?
How could he ruin the game?
Sheldon, that is incredible.
Really? Oh, great. I mean, aw. Okay, I gotta go.
Because the last me I didn’t go, I ended up playing Mystic Warlords of Ka.
Ba-eye.
Wow, you really are a genius.
You mean, like a pinky swear?
Well, in the first grade, my friend Rosie and I made a pact to marry Bert and Ernie. You know, from Sesame Street?
Then we found out we both wanted Ernie. We didn’t speak again until middle school.
The heart wants what the heart wants, Leonard.
Okay, I don’t know where you’re going with this, but tread carefully because it may be the last conversation we ever have.
And you thought a good time to bring this up be right after sex.
I’m not hooking Wolowitz up with one of my friends.
The problem isn’t what’s on the inside. It’s the creepy candy coating.
Oh, great thing about Ernie, was he never asked me for anything. He just gave.
She’s adorable, Howard. I think you’ll like her.
No, I thought that would be a nice surprise for her.
I just told her you’re an aerospace engineer, you speak five languages…
Right. Oh, and I told her you have an unhealthy attachment to your mother.
I’m kidding.
Yeah, well, it’s your fault.
What?
Am I a matchmaker or what?
Hey, guys. What you doing? Going out to discover electricity?
Kite fighting?
Oh, gee, sounds amazing, but, um, I’ve got some friends coming over. Not a big thing, we’re just gonna watch the Nebraska game.
I would’ve invited you, but I know you’re not a football fan.
Well, maybe we’ll hang out later, you know, after everybody’s gone.
See ya.
Hi.
It was pretty good. We won.
I’m glad to hear it.
Oh, my god, no. Why would you ask that?
Sure you have.
Of course not.
Leonard, look, if you want to meet my friends, that would be great. I just, you know, I didn’t want you to be bored.
Well, ’cause they’re not genius scientists.
Like who?
Okay, great. Well, then why don’t you come over next Saturday and watch the game with us.
They have them every week.
You wanted to meet my friends.
Oh, that’s okay, a lot of the guys’ girlfriends don’t know football. They just kind of drink and talk in the kitchen.
Sweetie, that’s a highlight from the ’98 championship game.
How much beer have you had?
Oh. I was just kind of hoping you were drunk. Now we’re back live.
Here, have some pizza, sweetie.
I know. I just need you stop talking.
Sheldon, come in.
There’s some in the fridge.
On Earth, we say thank you.
You know, Leonard, honey, I wouldn’t mind if you wanted to go fly kites with Sheldon.
Until half time.
And you’re gonna be here for a couple more.
No.
So, yeah, anyway, that’s my boyfriend. He is really smart.
Wow, Sheldon, I cannot believe you made up your own game.
All right, five. One, two, three, four, five. Oh, wow, look at that, my Department of Defence research grant is renewed.
Yay.
Actually, I have to pick up my friend Justin from the airport.
Um, yeah, if you want. I mean, there may not be room. He’s got a lot of stuff, like guitars and amplifiers.
My friend, Justin.
I told you about him.
Yeah, my friend from Omaha, plays the guitar. Anyway, he’s coming to L.A. looking for some session work, so I told him he could just crash on my couch for a few weeks.
He’s not some guy. He’s my friend.
Well, he’s definitely not gay.
Okay, we went out a little bit, a long time ago, but we were never like going out.
Do you have a problem with Justin staying with me?
You know what? Don’t talk to me like I’m an idiot.
How is that not talking to me like I’m an idiot? It’s my friend, it’s my couch, and it’s my freakin’ life!
Hey, if I want to invite the entire line up of Lollapalooza to sleep in my apartment, I will, and it’s none of your business!
Oh, now I’m a child? Well, at least I’m not an idiot anymore!
Oh, you are such a… What the hell is he doing?
Sheldon, just stop, look, the fight is over. Oh, and FYI, you never even heard of The Black Eyed Peas until you met me!
Hey.
Not really, no.
Are you ready to apologize?
E-e-e-e-eh! Wrong answer, but thank you for playing.
Oh, there it is again! You think I’m stupid!
Oh, yeah? well, there’s a difference between being a jerk and being an ass!
Oh, thank you very much. Come back soon. With the other half of my tip. Hey, Sheldon, what are you doing here?
Is Leonard coming?
Well, that’s not gonna happen.
Which is?
I’m busy.
Fine. What do you want?
Yes.
No, no, Sheldon, they just make a half-sandwich.
Okay, fine, it’s soup and a small sandwich. Is that what you want?
Great.
Don’t you usually get lemonade?
Do you want lemonade?
Anything else?
I am not going to apologize. I’ve done nothing wrong. He is completely overreacting.
Well, I’m sorry, Sheldon, but this really isn’t about you.
Yeah, yeah, I’ll be right there. Look, Sheldon, I have to go.
Leonard is wrong.
I’m coming. Goodbye, Sheldon. What do you mean, transgressions I’ve committed?
Like what? Yeah, yeah, I see you, you’re making a little cheque sign in the air, I got it, just hold your horses. What does Leonard complain about?
My singing?
Okay, if Leonard has so many problems with me, why hasn’t he just said so?
Oh, really? Well, then, do me a favour and tell Leonard that he can drop dead!
I hear you don’t like my stuffed animals, my driving or my punctuality.
It doesn’t matter why he told me. It’s true, isn’t it?
That isn’t even your problem, the problem is you don’t trust me!
Oh, your yelling must have freaked him out again.
No, I’m going to go find your damn roommate before he hurts himself trying to cross the street or something!
Oh, now I need your permission for that, too?!
Really? Why not? You’re so smart, and I’m so dumb!
Hey, why don’t you just let me find him while you sit there hitting your imaginary brake?
What stop sign?
Yeah?
What do you mean?
Oh, yeah, kind of. It’s, it’s no big thing.
All right, what’s going on?
Come on, Sheldon, let’s go home. Look, we’re done fighting.
Okay, there’s going to no more shouting and no skeet-shooting.
Oh, my God, would you let this go?!
Leonard, will you just let me handle this, please? Look, let’s just… Sheldon, please,
You know, how about we buy you this robot, and then we all go home?
Okay, you can have that one.
Buy him the robot, Leonard.
Yes, you can.
He’s a musician. He’ll sleep in his own vomit, if he has to.
Come in! Hurry!
I’m back here.
Oh, for god’s sakes, I’m in the bathroom!
Get in here! Hurry! Don’t you dare knock.
I slipped in the shower, and I think I dislocated my shoulder.
What?
I know. I slipped.
Yeah, okay, whatever. Will you just turn the water off and help me up?
What?
Uh-huh.
Oh, my god. I got to go to the emergency room.
Okay, can you drive me?
Well, I can’t drive!
Ow.
No, no, no, I can’t wait that long, you got to help me, please.
No one’s saying that. Let’s go.
I don’t need panties, I just need shorts and a shirt.
One was already in an accident.
Clothes, Sheldon. I need clothes!
Seriously? Those shorts with that top?
No… No… Oh, that’s cute.
Okay, now, you got to help me put these on.
But don’t look.
I don’t want you to see me naked.
Yeah, great.
Ok, now you gotta help me get my arm into the sleeve.
Is that my arm?
Then, maybe you should let it go.
You have your learner’s permit, right?
Good.
All right, can we please go?
It’s right there.
In a parking lot in Hollywood. Now, can we please go?
Could you please drive a little faster?
Nothing. The engine does that sometimes.
No. The light has been on since I bought the car.
It’s not going to explode, just keep driving. Warp speed ahead, Mr. Spock.
Oh, god, I’m gonna lose the arm.
What?
It’s not soup, it’s courage.
How did you see it? You said you wouldn’t look.
I dislocated my shoulder.
You ready know that.
No.
No.
Getting one.
No.
Change migraine to yes.
Oh, next question.
Oh, my god, what the hell does this have to do with my stupid shoulder?
Ass.
Hey, Sheldon, Sheldon, look, I am scared and in a lot of pain. Could you please just take a break from being you for just a minute and try being, I don’t know, comforting?
Thanks. That’s much better.
Wait. You have to help me get into bed. Sheldon has to get me into bed. Bet you never thought I’d say that.
You know, people think you’re this weird robot man who’s so annoying all the time, and you totally are, but then it’s like that movie Wall-E at the end. You’re so full of love, and you can save a plant and get fat people out of the floaty chairs.
Sing “Soft Kitty” to me.
Injured and drugged is a kind of sick.
Wait, wait. Let’s sing it as a round. I’ll start. Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur… See that’s where you come in. I’ll start over. Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur… I’ve got all night, Sheldon. Soft kitty, warm kitty… little ball of fur, happy kitty, sleepy kitty, purr, purr, purr.
Why are you back from your date so early?
What exactly does that mean?
Hi, guys.
Yo, Raj, talk to me. I’m sorry, just screwing with you. Hey, Howard, why haven’t you called Bernadette?
Yeah, she said she hasn’t heard from you in a week. I thought you liked her?
She agreed to go out with you for free. What more do you need?
Different how?
Are you high?
Howard, you’re going to throw away a great girl like Bernadette because you’re holding out for some ridiculous fantasy?
Hey, I did not settle for Leonard. I mean, obviously, he isn’t the kind of guy I usually go out with, you know, physically.
My point is, I do not judge a book by its cover. I am interested in the person underneath.
All right, you know what, I will tell you why it’s wrong…
What?
Oh, gee, you’re too late. Scarlett Johansson and Wonder Woman were just in here trolling around for neurotic, little weasels.
Yes, but I don’t think she wants to see you.
Come on, Howard. You hurt her feelings by not calling her all week. Plus, I’ve kind of been talkin’ some smack about ya.
Wow.
Hey, here’s your tip from table seven.
Mm-hmm.
You want me to throw him out?
Are you sure? He’s small. I bet I can get a nice, tight spiral on him.
Oh, I am so sorry.
Hey, Leonard, check this out.
You want me to put it back?
Oh, come on, it’s fine. We’ll just put it all on the table, you know, family style.
Oh, yeah, you can’t sit there.
Oh no, no, you see, in the winter, that seat is close enough to the radiator so that he’s warm, yet not so close that he sweats. In the summer, it’s directly in the path of a cross-breeze created by opening windows there and there. It faces the television at an angle that isn’t direct, so he can still talk to everybody, yet not so wide that the picture looks distorted.
Oh, thanks. They are cute, aren’t they?
Shoes for Less.
Oh, great selection, great prices.
Womenfolk?
Just eat your dinner.
Yeah, well, I don’t think it’s very funny.
Howard, never let her go.
It’s not about shoes.
Um, actually, can we do it in private?
Thanks, Raj. Okay, so here’s the thing, I was wondering if you could maybe teach me a little physics?
Yeah, okay, cool. I don’t need the PBS special, I just want to know enough so I can talk to Leonard about his job. You know, like Bernadette does.
‘Cause I want to surprise him.
Come on, Sheldon, this is important to me.
You’re sitting here playing video games all day.
Sure. I did the one with the frogs.
Yeah, actually, it was pretty cool. A lot of the girls threw up, but I gutted that thing like a deer.
Oh, come on! A smart guy like you, it’ll be a challenge. You can make it like an experiment.
Great! It’s a little insulting, but great. I’ll be KoKo.
Hey, Sheldon.
Ready to get started?
Um, I don’t have one.
I have to take notes?
There’s gonna be a test?
Thank you.
Ancient Greece?
Um, does this have anything to do with Leonard’s work?
Twenty six hundred years?
I have to go to the bathroom.
Not for twenty six hundred years.
Uh, we know that… Newton was a really smart cookie. Oh! Is that where Fig Newtons come from?
Sorry.
I don’t know.
Hey! You don’t have to be so mean!
No, you just suck at teaching.
Oh, God, Sheldon, look I’m trying to understand, but you’re going too fast. Can you just back up a little bit?
Not that far back!
I don’t know. Where were we looking up at the night sky?
Damn it!
Squared?
Aristotle?
Five?
Then I don’t know.
Because I’m stupid!
Okay, look, can we just please forget about all this extra stuff and can you just tell me what Leonard does?
Really? That’s it? Well, that doesn’t sound so complicated.
Okay, I just have one question. What exactly are sub-atomic particles?
Thank you.
Oh, balls.
Actually, that’s not true, Leonard. In fact, recently I’ve been thinking that given the parameters of your experiment, the transport of electrons through the aperture the nano-fabricated metal rings is qualitatively no different than the experiment already conducted in the Netherlands. Their observed phase shift in the diffusing electrons inside the metal ring already conclusively demonstrated the electric analogue of the Aharonov-Bohm quantum-interference effect. That’s it. That’s all I know. Oh, wait! Fig Newtons were named after a town in Massachusetts, not the scientist.
Oh, I always tear up when the Grinch’s heart grows three sizes.
You really didn’t like it, Sheldon?
I just love decorating the Christmas tree. It makes me feel like a little girl again.
Really? Why not?
Oh, sounds festive. Did you at least give presents?
Sheldon, what about you? Did you have a Christmas tree?
So I take it you don’t want to help us trim the tree.
What is it?
Oh, sure, sure, yeah. Very Christmassy.
No, it’s fine. Look, Sir Isaac can go right next to this little candy cane.
What? Your… your mother’s coming? When?
When were you going to tell me?
Why were you keeping this a secret?
Why wouldn’t she approve of me? I’m adorable.
Hey, it’s a big menu. There’s two pages just for desserts.
Okay, you know what? It’s lame when I say it, it’s just ridiculous when you pile on.
So what did she say when you told her we were going out?
You didn’t tell her we were going out, did you?
Why not?
Well, he sent me a football and a catcher’s mitt for Christmas, so I’m going to say no.
No, it sounded like a compliment.
Nothing. Not a damn thing.
Oh, it’s not a problem.
No, you do not.
Yeah, I gotta put a sticker over that. So, uh, you must be devastated about your divorce.
Come on, I mean, you’re not upset that your marriage is over?
Sure, sure.
Eight years?
Yikes. What’s so funny?
You know what? I could use a drink. Do you want to stop for a drink?
I do, I’ll teach you.
Okay, now this time try drinking it all at once.
I’ve been responsible for my own buzz since 2003. Another round for me and my homegirl.
As long as you don’t feel it running down your pants, you’re fine.
Well, we are known for our cheesecake. Hit us again.
Hey, Bev, guess what?
I’m sleeping with your son.
The one from whom I live across the hall from.
Oh, Beverly, I can’t talk to my boyfriend’s mother about his penis.
Actually, I’ve only had the cheesecake. One more time. You know, Leonard did not want to tell you we were dating.
Well, let’s go find out who.
Leonard?
Get out here! Your mommy wants to talk to you!
You’re in trouble.
Yeah, not bad, not bad.
Oh, thank you.
What the hell happened to lovely and charming?
That’s the Del Taco.
I blame Penny, too. Bad Penny.
Agreed.
Oh, thank you, Beverly.
That you’d be willing to die a horrible death on the off-chance you’d get to second base?
Well, the last big thing I did was this production of Diary of Anne Frank above a bowling alley. But I think things might be turning around pretty soon.
Well, promise you won’t make fun of me.
Okay. Well, I went to this psychic who told me that if I cut my hair, I’m going to get a national commercial.
She’s not one of those phonies, okay. She wrote a book and has her own Web site.
Why are you being such a jerk?
Ha-ha, bite me.
Oh, we don’t need to talk about that anymore. Leonard covered it pretty well in the car.
Right, and if you can’t understand it, it’s not a fact.
Oh, got it. Thank you for educating me.
Amazing. Would you like to try some?
Well, the fact is, you can’t.
Maybe some of us should stop talking altogether.
Wow, that’s all you got after you were the most obnoxious person on a double date that included Howard Wolowitz?
Thank you. Would you be willing to go to my psychic and see what it’s all about?
I would not.
Really?
You saying I don’t have an open mind?
You know, I believe in ghosts, too.
And astrology.
Oh, no, no, no, crystals don’t work.
Oh, voodoo’s real. You don’t want to mess with voodoo.
I can’t believe it. If I hadn’t been working the dinner shift, I would’ve run
I’m not scared. I would’ve gone all Nebraska on their asses.
It won’t happen again, what’s up?
Good night. That was weird, even for him.
Who is it?
Yes?
Yeah.
Sheldon, do you want to sleep here tonight?
Um… three little kittens? Three little pigs? God, I don’t know. Star Wars?
Look, Sheldon, sweetie, I know you’re feeling insecure, but we’ve really got to go to sleep.
Wait, wait, what’s 0400?
That’s, like, in 45 minutes.
Oh, my…
He doesn’t need to know what we were doing, Leonard.
No, thanks.
Ugh, what can you do? Here.
Sheldon, are you okay?
Come on, Sheldon, you can’t move. Don’t you need to stay in one place so the mother ship can find you when it returns?
Is he quitting his job at the university?
Born and raised.
Sheldon, I can’t believe I’m saying this, but I’m going to miss you.
Sheldon, that’s so…
Whatcha doing?
Interesting. I usually just have coffee. You’ve been up all night?
Yes.
And you’re stuck?
Oh, sorry, sweetie, I can’t help you till I’ve had my coffee.
What is he doing now?
Not recently.
For me, the worst part was when people saw us leave with them.
Shh.
Oh, poor baby.
Oh, what a gentleman. Hey, Sheldon.
Oh, damn.
Do I look okay?
Oh, you’ve been falling all night. You’re used to it.
Toad of truth? Is that a physics thing?
Leonard, you’re… you’re giggling in your sleep.
Well, it creeps me out.
Just answer the phone.
What happened?
Okay. Have fun.
Sheldon, what do you want?
Hey, you know what, Leonard, I know I said I could handle your roommate, but I was wrong. We’re going to have to break up.
Leonard doesn’t snore.
Okay, I’ll get those drinks started for you.
Sheldon, what the hell are you doing?
No, wait, wait, no, wait. Wh.. what are you doing here?
You just, you just walked in and they hired you, just like that?
Sheldon, this is ridiculous.
Sheldon, wait, this isn’t even what I do. I’m a waitress, not a busboy.
Hey, guys, sorry you had to wait, but we are swamped. What’s this?
Sheldon doesn’t work here.
Sheldon, where are you going? Aren’t you going to clean this up?
Okay, what’s the big surprise?
Oh. Wow. Okay. Let’s see. We’ve got, uh, milk chocolate, Swiss cheese, fondue. My lactose-intolerant boyfriend is going to eat all this, then I’m going to climb on his back and rocket to the moon?
Okay, I’m starting to think Swiss is key here.
We’re going to Disneyland and ride the Matterhorn?
We’re going to Disney World and ride the Matterhorn?
Okay, sweetie, this started out fun, but I’m over it.
We’re going skiing in Switzerland?!
Oh, my God, Leonard! That’s incredible!
My Rabe-what-ly?
You actually put that in an agreement?
Is there anything in there about if one of you gets a girlfriend?
Okay, I know I shouldn’t ask, but what is…?
It’s not over, is it?
Hello.
Well, I always figured it was to study us, discover our weaknesses, and report back to your alien overlords.
Better acoustics for your throat singing?
Oh, for God’s sakes.
I’m sorry. Is this supposed to be buttering me up?
Okay, show’s over.
Sheldon, this is Leonard’s decision. He invited me to Switzerland, and I intend to go.
I’ll talk to Leonard.
Yes. If it means that much to you, you should go.
You’re welcome.
I think we’re there.
I know! I went shopping today and bought special undies for the occasion.
Think it through, Leonard.
Oh!
No, no, it’s probably just allergies.
Do any of them work?
Did that sound okay to you? Do not come in here!
I’m having a tea party. What do you think’s going on? I think I might have the flu. Or the plague.
Yep. ‘Cause I’m gonna be dead.
Here’s your soup.
Yes.
Yes.
Why don’t I pour it in your lap, and you can tell me.
Yeah, well, I’m sick, too.
I don’t know what to tell you, Sheldon.
Happy Valentine’s Day.
Hi!
Um, can you give me a hint?
Um, Stanley, Stanley, Stanley Tucci?
Oh, oh, Stan Lee! Cool!
Of course I do. You’re an important part of my life and I pay attention to the things you are interested in.
Um, he was on Star Trek.
Star Wars?
Um, uh, Stan Lee, oh, he was in those goofy kung fu movies you love so much?
Oh. So, is this Bruce Lee’s nerdy brother, Stan?
I’m sorry. You sent more than one letter about that?
No, it isn’t.
No, it isn’t.
Mmm, no, it isn’t.
Okay, look, they sent me the ticket. I told them I wasn’t driving and they were all, if it wasn’t you, who was it?
No! It wasn’t a betrayal. It was more of a can’t afford any more points on my license. I already have to buy my insurance from this place in the Cayman Islands.
Yes, yes, look, and now you have a photo to remember that heroic day.
Sheldon, I’m sorry. I’ll be happy to reimburse you for the fine. You know, as soon as I get a part in a movie or my own TV series.
Oh, balls.
All right, let’s go.
What is this?
Do I have a choice?
The reason that date is, like, so totally fixed in my memory is that I had the privilege to be witness to one of the most heroic acts I’ve ever seen in, like, ever.
Why, you did, sir. You. Dr. Sheldon Cooper, and may I add, it is a privilege to know you.
But it is a fact that it’s a privilege to know you. Totally. A teardrop rolls down my cheek?
Sheldon’s in jail.
What do you think? For doing the same crap he always does, except to a judge. He has to stay in there until he apologizes.
Oh, gee, thanks, Leonard. That didn’t occur to me. If he doesn’t apologize by 5 o’clock he is going to spend the night in jail.
We’re home.
I’m going to write you a cheque for that. As long as you promise to put it in your drawer and never cash it, like the others.
Okay, I realize that…
Okay, maybe you’ll have another chance to have…
Did he just somehow give me the finger?
Hey, Stuart.
What’s going on?
Ah. Cool. Got any fun plans?
Oh, nice.
Oh, okay. Well, I was hoping, um, you could do me a favour.
Well, I’m kind of responsible for Sheldon missing Stan Lee, and I really want to make it up to him. So I was hoping you could give me his phone number so maybe I can arrange for them to meet.
Hmm. Damn. All right. Thank you.
Really? Great!
Then why did you tell me you had it?
I’m sorry, Stuart. Thanks anyway.
Yeah?
What kind of deal?
You’re extorting a date out of me?
Can I bring Leonard?
Deal.
Yup.
Okay, sweetie, I don’t know if we’re gonna have cookies, or he’s just gonna say hi, or really what’s gonna happen, so just let me talk, and we’ll…
Are you Stan Lee?
Hi. I’m Penny. This is my friend, Sheldon.
Right, right. Anyway, Sheldon here is a huge fan of yours, and he was supposed to meet you the other day at the comic book store, but he kind of ended up in jail.
Oh, no, no, I said I’m inviting you to come with me to Stan Lee’s house.
I’m sorry. He doesn’t really understand sarcasm.
Nice to meet you.
Why not?
Oh, no, you didn’t trade the food for magic beans, did you?
Yeah, sometimes I don’t listen, sometimes I just watch your jaw go up and down.
Who’s Adam West?
There a new girlfriend in there? ‘Cause you might need one.
That is so sad.
Okay, I’m just gonna go home and make a grilled cheese and window-shop on eHarmony.
Okay.
Hey, guys. Enjoying your food that I actually brought you instead of promising food, but bringing you a box of random crap?
What ring?
Why?
Okay, just to be clear, the first piece of jewellery my boyfriend gives me is a prop from a movie, and I don’t even get to keep it?
Sheldon tried to take the ring and I punched him.
Whatcha doin’?
No, no, no, no, no, no, you are my boyfriend. Nothing you do is silly to me.
FYI, this is a bag from Victoria’s Secret.
Ugh, gotta go back to dating dumb guys from the gym.
Sheldon, congratulations. Brought you cheesecake from work. You know, ’cause of your award, not because a busboy sneezed on it.
Why not?
That’s no reason to back out. You know, I once got a pretty big honour in high school, and I was terrified about appearing in front of a big crowd, but I went through with it, and you know what? The world looked pretty darn good sitting on a haystack in the back of a Ford F-150 as a member of the Corn Queen’s court.
I just love how you always skip over the part where no one asks.
Oh, my God.
Just sit.
Yes, but you’re not smarter than all of us put together.
Okay, your problem is, you’re trying to do this all by yourself.
Did I see X-Men?
Oh. I say a lot of things, sweetie. So, how about it, Sheldon?
Okay. Well, I am going to take you shopping, get you a nice suit. Might give you more confidence.
So, what do you say, Sheldon? Are we your X-Men?
It’ll give you confidence. You know, sometimes when I’m feeling all stressed out about something, I go out and buy a cute top or a fun skirt and I have a whole new outlook on life.
Yeah, that’s when I buy shoes. Now, let’s see what we’ve got. Ooh! This is nice.
Yeah, so?
Fine. Why don’t you pick out what you like.
No, you’re wrong.
Where the hell d’you find that?
It’s ridiculous.
Please just try this one on.
What’s the matter?
Here, drink this. It’ll relax you.
Fine, faint.
Here, see if this one works.
Sure.
Having a little trouble catching your breath there?
Do or do not. There is no try.
I believe I quoted Empire Strikes Back.
Oh. Oh. Thank you.
Oh, yeah, no, I, I’m, I’m glad.
Yeah. Yeah. No, no. Um. So, it’s getting pretty late. We should probably go to sleep.
Okay.
Hmm.
Okay, good night, sweetie.
Hi.
Oh, right, bowling.
No, no, it’s okay. I mean, let’s face it, you guys would get creamed without me.
It’s always nice chatting with you, Sheldon.
Thinly veiled contempt.
Got it.
Bite me!
Yes. I love chilli cheese fries.
Yeah, why?
Do you really want to get into this right now?
Okay, look, you just caught me by surprise last night. I didn’t know what to say.
I’m not sure.
Okay, this isn’t the place to have this conversation.
Don’t push it, Leonard.
You are. You don’t get to decide when I’m ready to say I love you!
What?
Ice cream?
Um, Ach.
Did Leonard send you over here?
Yeah, I’m sorry about that.
Again, I’m sorry.
You’re kidding.
All right, Sheldon, what part of this is supposed to make me feel better?
Oh, honey, I don’t know. Things are a little weird with Leonard right now.
No, no, that’s okay. Just let me talk to him, and I’ll get back to you.
I don’t know.
You’re not gonna leave me alone until I do it, are you?
I think we should talk now.
Really? So, you didn’t get all snarky ’cause I said something nice to a bowl of chilli fries?
Look, Leonard, you have to know how much I care about you. It’s just that I’ve said the L word too soon before, and it didn’t work out very well.
I’m sorry. You know what I’m talking about, though.
So, we’re good?
The Wesley Crushers?
I don’t get it.
Still don’t get it.
Okay, I’m sorry, honey, but the Wesley Crushers sounds like a bunch of people who like Wesley Crusher.
Thank you, Stuart. It’s nice to know.
Hey, thanks.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, that’s right.
Oh, yeah, me, too.
Tell me about it.
Oh, I’m sorry.
Really?
What are you talking about?
No!
Yeah, I got it.
I know.
Leonard, stop pressuring me.
Yeah, you are! Just back off!
I didn’t mean shut up.
No, this isn’t fair to you, Leonard. I’m sorry.
Oh, damn, they cancelled my Visa. Oh, yay, a new MasterCard!
What?
Okay. Are, are you hoping to get it telepathically?
God, can we please just say no longer seeing each other?
Okay, here’s the protocol, you and I are still friends, and you stop saying coitus.
Really?
Right.
Everyone.
Great.
So, how you been?
You’re just coitusing with me, aren’t you?
Mmm. How’s Leonard doing?
I’ll pretend I didn’t hear it.
Yep.
Interesting. I’ll have to have you over for spaghetti some night.
Oh. Um, okay. Why don’t you give me an hour and come over?
I don’t have hot dogs.
So, um, was Leonard okay with you coming over?
Well, good.
He’s been crying?
Oh, God, I feel terrible.
No. Why, do you?
Why did you ask if I had one, too?
All right. So, what’s new in your life?
Have you been running?
I’m so glad you like it.
Well, maybe that’s ’cause Leonard can’t cook.
Whatever. Ooh, I’m gonna get the cheesecake out of the fridge.
Oh, um, I, I can come back.
Yeah, I guess you’re right.
Nope.
Oh, oh, good, because, um, his mother called me.
Yeah, she wants me to take him shopping for sheets and towels.
Oh, well, then you, you do it.
Okay, you can take him for shoes.
Well, all I know is he says they hurt his feet.
Oh, no, no, no, a bunch of us from work are going to Disneyland next Saturday and Sheldon wants to come.
Well, he heard me making plans on the phone. Was I going to say no?
We’re going to Disneyland. He’s going to eat junk food.
Okay, whatever.
All right, got it. Is there anything else?
What’s the problem with Goofy?
We’re home.
How was I supposed to know that?
I know, I know.
No, you already threw up once. Go put on your PJs and brush your teeth.
Just go.
You’re welcome, sweetie.
Oh, um, I should probably get going.
Yep, okay.
Sheldon’s churro on my shoes.
He’s such an angel when he’s asleep.
I think we can do it.
No, be friends. You and me.
Good. I’m glad.
Good night, Leonard.
Hey, Sheldon.
What? What are you doing with, what?
Sheldon, what are you doing with maxi pads?
Oh. What?
Wait, wait, hold on, back up. You’re having a woman stay with you?
Oh, no, no, no, no. I’m not flabbergasted. I’m puzzled. Yeah, let’s go with puzzled.
Female jibber jabber?
Oh, they’re not my friends.
Oh, good, you’re up. Look, my car won’t start. I need a ride to work.
No, Mr. smarty-pants. I ignored the fill gas tank light.
Hello.
Oh, Penny, this is Dr. Plimpton, a leading expert on quantum cosmology. Dr. Plimpton, Penny is a waitress who doesn’t understand the role gasoline plays in the internal combustion engine.
Nice to meet you, too. Are you enjoying your stay?
Good.
Hang on.
We just broke up.
Not as good as you apparently.
You know what? It’s, it’s none of my business. If you want to sleep with Sheldon’s doctor buddy right after we stopped seeing each other, go for it.
I’m not recommending it. I’m saying it already happened.
You know what? I’m just gonna take the bus to work.
Oh, no, no, it’s okay. You might slip on a banana peel and get me pregnant.
Oh, Leonard?
I found these in the dryer. I’m assuming they belong to Sheldon.
You mean you and Dr. Slutbunny?
Well, you don’t owe me an explanation.
No, you don’t.
Oh, I’m judging you nine ways to Sunday, but you don’t owe me an explanation.
I’m listening.
Okay, Babydoll Pink, let’s see if you can cover up the fact that I got my dad’s feet.
Hang on.
Uh, well, you can try, but the people across the hall are being very noisy.
Apparently, the one fella tried to adjust the thermostat, then the other fella went bat-crap crazy.
Well, not as nuts as the guy who chooses to live with him.
Oh, I do not believe that.
So Sheldon’s last roommate tried to warn you off?
Well, yeah, he’d been living with Sheldon.
Okay, and after all that, you just moved in?
Why on earth did you agree to all that?
Well, I’m sorry, Leonard, it’s very hard to feel sympathy for you.
Oh, my God.
A little bit. Okay. Let me get this straight. You move in with this guy, he makes you sign a ridiculous roommate agreement, then he walks into your bedroom while you’re doing this Joyce Kim, and you still stay?
Why not?
What does that have to do with Joyce Kim?
So, what, that’s it? You’ve stayed with Sheldon all this time because he kept you from going to federal prison?
Oh, yeah, I’m wondering about that. You said it was working when you moved in.
Okay, what does all this have to do with the elevator?
Okay, how do you know he said that? You left the room.
Fine. Go ahead.
So, why was it his lucky day?
What were you doing with rocket fuel in your apartment?
Are we ever going to get to the elevator?
Okay, so, basically, you’re the reason I have to walk up and down three flights of stairs every day?
Excuse me, I was in high school. Studying, keeping my nose clean, doing volunteer work for the community.
Not pregnant. Yes!
Oh, hi. What’s going on?
I’m sorry, what?
Um…
Uh, Leonard, this is Zack. Zack, Leonard.
Yeah, maybe.
Oh, but what about the party?
Oh, right.
Hey, guys, this is my friend Zack.
Oh! That’s very cool.
Sheldon! Play nice.
Okay, guys, thank you, it’s been fun.
No, just keep walking.
Damn you, you rat bastard.
Zack was a perfectly nice guy, and then you ruined him!
‘Cause in the olden days, I never would’ve known he was so stupid.
Yes, he was! He thought you were gonna blow up the moon!
He spent the entire night bragging about how he invented the word appe-teasers.
You have destroyed my ability to tolerate idiots. Now, come with me.
We’re gonna have sex.
Put on your noise-cancelling headphones, ’cause it’s gonna get loud.
What, do you have eyes in the back of your head?
Oh, thanks, I’m not hungry.
Yeah, sorry about that.
Oh, God.
Oh, hi. Um, I gotta run. Early shift.
Yeah, it must have been. I just threw up in my closet.
Oh, yeah, tonight’s not great for me.
Leonard, last night was a mistake.
Look, I’m sorry. I was drunk, I was lonely, I hated Zack. Can we just forget it ever happened?
Oh, God!
Look, I said I’m sorry. Can’t u please let it go?
Oh. Hey, Leonard.
Are you drunk?
Are you out of your mind?!
Ah, cool.
Oh, does that come up much on the space station?
All right. Pass the soy sauce.
Oh, it’s not bad. Kind of hungry.
Really? They’re going to make a robot that spits on your hamburger?
Oh ha-ha, oh. That’s amazing.
Does NASA know you’re using that thing as a napkin holder?
You stole it?
Who’s Amy?
Sheldon has a girlfriend?
How long has this been going on?
Are you telling me, for the past four months I have been asking you what’s new and you never thought to go with Sheldon has a girlfriend?
Ah, du-du-du-du-du. How did they meet?
Oh, my God! Sheldon and Amy.
Okay, well, what do you communicate about?
Okay, I have a question.
You don’t even like people touching you. How are you going to have sex?
Oh, honey, did your mom not have the talk with you? You know, when your private parts started growing?
Oh, God.
Look, Sheldon, before you race off to the fertility clinic, you might want to think about, uh gee, I don’t know, maybe actually spending some time with her.
Yeah.
Why not?
Okay, look, don’t think of it as dating a girlfriend. Think of it as, uh, getting to know the future mother of your child.
Probably not.
You do realize I stand on the other side of the door waiting for you to finish knocking three times.
Yeah, my point is it’s a waste of time.
What do you want?
Oh, that’s great. Have fun.
What?
Well, go ask Leonard.
Leonard said cockamamie?
Okay, fine. When’s the date?
Now?
Sheldon, did it ever occur to you that I might have other plans?
Well, no, not per se, but…
Let me get my cockamamie keys.
You’re welcome.
Sheldon.
Can I ask you a question?
Yeah. Well, my question is, and I’m pretty sure I know the answer, is this your first date?
No.
Okay. Well, then, there’s a couple of things you should probably know.
My point is, I know more about dating than you, and if you were as smart as you think you are, you would listen to me.
Fair point.
So, um, Amy, Sheldon tells me you’re a neuro something-or-other.
Yeah, it’s okay.
Um, what is that scent you’re wearing? It smells great.
Ah. Well, your hair looks very nice.
No, no, I was just giving you a compliment.
Guys, how ’bout some music?
Okay. Uncomfortable silence it is. Hey, Sheldon, have you told Amy what it was like for you growing up in Texas?
Well, why don’t you tell her?
Any follow up, Amy?
I myself grew up in Nebraska. Small town outside of Omaha. You know, nice place, mostly family farms, a few meth labs.
I don’t know. I was just trying something.
Hey, here’s another possible topic of conversation. This is a big night for Sheldon. Right, Sheldon?
No, no. My point is, uh, tonight is Sheldon’s first official date. Discuss.
So, um, Amy, what about you? Do you date much?
Uh, yeah, I wouldn’t say many. A few. . What’s
What? Where did you get 171 men?
Whoa, wait, wait, wait. I did not start dating at 15.
14.
No.
Oh.
Okay, Sheldon, I think you’ve made your point.
Okay, Sheldon, you are so wrong. That is not even close to the real number. I’m gonna need a drink over here.
No! No! No. Let’s just all finish our dinners, okay?
I did not have sex with 31 guys.
And that is?
You’re still on that?
Okay, you know what? I’m gonna come at this in a whole new way. Sheldon, if you try to make a baby with Amy in a petri dish, I’m gonna tell your mother on you.
Really? Your deeply religious born-again Christian mother wants a test-tube grandbaby born out of wedlock?
If I’d thought of that in the first place, I could’ve saved myself this whole night.
What?
Oh, you wanted me to pay.
No, no, no, no. You’re right. We’re not going out anymore, I should pay for myself. What?
Yeah, but you wouldn’t be able to talk to yourself. I’m a little low on cash.
Nothing.
I’m cute. I get by.
Okay.
But it’s Thursday. Thursday’s pizza night.
For what?
Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry.
Wait. Cybernetics is robot stuff, right?
So you want to turn yourself into some sort of robot?
Okay, here’s my question. Didn’t you already do that?
Wait. Honey,have you ever run before?
No, it won’t. Um, how does he know I jog?
Oh, my God, that is so creepy!
Coming, coming. Hey, nice knees.
Oh. And the Flash shirt is what? Because you’re gonna run really fast?
I don’t have one.
Don’t have one.
Uh, no.
No. I just run till I’m hungry, then I stop for a bear claw.
It’s good to stretch your muscles before you run.
All right, let’s start with a toe touch. Okay, you do it.
Oh. Wow. Good job. Okay, um, can you do this?
Okay, let’s just warm up on the run.
Okay, let’s go.
Oh, let me help you up.
Oh, Sheldon!
Thanks.
Hey, what’s my share?
Okay, can I get you after Friday when I get paid?
What am I up to now?
It’s not free, I’m gonna pay him back. Shut up!
Yeah, to be honest, I don’t see much difference.
So, either one of you weirdos want to buy my underwear? Only fourteen hundred bucks.
Oh, great. Hi, I’m Penny, I’ll be your waitress.
I’d rather people not know I have any prior connection to you whatsoever.
Sheldon, I’m not waiting on you.
Because you’re not here.
Yeah, I know who he is. I watch Dancing with the Stars.
You know, there’s an Olive Garden down the street. You guys should try it sometime.
What up, Shel-Bot?
What do you want me to do?
Really, you want me to sing Soft Kitty to a computer monitor?
Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur.
Happy kitty, sleepy…
Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of fur. Happy kitty, sleepy kitty, purr, purr, purr.
Hey, look, it’s Shamy.
All righty. What’s new?
I got it. But what I was going for was, you know, how’s your life?
Okay, I’m just gonna walk away, ’cause I don’t want to be here.
So this is the plan? From now on, we’re just gonna hide out in here to avoid the Shamy?
Get one yourself.
God, he’s an ass when he drinks.
I thought you were going to talk to Sheldon.
Well, what’d he say?
Kinda, sorta had to?
Well, you defended me, right?
What?
No.
No!
Wow, that is better.
Hey, Sheldon.
I hear you broke up with Amy.
Wow. That’s like the worst country song ever. So, how are you doing?
Amy.
Well, breakups, or whatever the hell this is, can be tough.
Okay. Good.
What’s up?
Well, I’d ask you guys if you want dessert, but I know Sheldon doesn’t eat dessert on Tuesdays. And even if Raj wanted something, he couldn’t tell me. Howard won’t order anything, but he will come up with some sort of skeevy comment involving the words pie or cheesecake. And Leonard’s lactose intolerant, so he can’t eat anything here without his intestines blowing up like a balloon animal.
You want the fruit platter?
Yeah.
Oh, Howard, heads up. Your ex-girlfriend just came in for her shift.
Not since I found out the teddy bear you gave me had a webcam in it.
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, sure. Just yesterday, she asked, why is Howard hiding under the table?
Oh, no, not at first. Right after I pointed it out.
Uh, not that I know of. Hey, while we’re on the subject, why did you guys break up anyway?
Howard, if you want my help, I’ve got to know what happened.
Yeah, that’s what I’m counting on. Spill.
Um, the online game? Sure.
Oh, God. I think I see where this is going.
Oh, you’re right. That is so embarrassing.
Bernadette or the troll?
Well, what was your side?
Really? And that didn’t make her feel better?
Oh, gee, Howard, I really don’t want to get in the middle of this.
Okay, I will think about it.
Yeah, I said I’d think about it.
Okay, fine. Look, look, I’m calling her now! See?
Hey, how are we doing over here? Can I get you something to drink?
Are you gonna want to order food?
Okay.
That’s what I told him when he asked me. I hope that’s not out of line.
Oh. I’m sorry.
You know, you look thirsty. I brought you some iced tea.
It’s passion fruit, new on the menu.
Not where I can hear you guys.
Yeah, that’ll hold me for a while.
Complimentary nachos! You enjoy. Never had sex? Wow.
Hey, this is a little awkward, but my manager says I can’t actually give nachos away. So, just take that when you’re ready.
Sheldon?
What are you doing here?
You know, they have a really nice bar over at the Olive Garden.
Okay, Sheldon. What can I get you?
Could you be a little more specific?
I’m sorry, honey, I don’t know millilitres.
Great. Now, where were we?
A what?
Oh, yeah, you know, every bartender makes it differently. Why don’t you give it a try.
All right. Sheldon, what’s on your mind?
Oh, right, that. Yes, Leonard told me. Sorry, honey.
I drink.
You know, sometimes stuff just happens, and there’s nothing you can do about it. For example, Lisa Peterson hasn’t talked to me since the 11th grade, because no matter how much you apologize, you can’t go back and un-dry-hump someone’s boyfriend.
Exactly. Sometimes you can’t win.
Kirk cheated.
Right there with you.
What?
What? Sheldon, you can’t reprogram people.
How long?
Okay, help me out here. How does an archaeology professor get that good with a whip?
And I can’t believe you’ve never read Eat, Pray, Love.
You know, I could totally rock a hat like that.
Well, I’m watching it now. Why would I want to see it again on Friday?
What, 21 seconds? That’ll be like seeing a whole new movie!
Yeah, I think I’ll pass. But you guys enjoy your extra 21 seconds.
Mm, yeah, no, we wouldn’t.
Yeah?
Oh. Um, it was, it was just going to be me and Bernadette. Besides, I thought you were going to the movies with Sheldon and the guys.
Yeah, no, no, I-I-I got that.
Uh, just wear something comfortable.
You know Amy, when we say girl talk, it doesn’t just have to be about our lady parts.
Oh, thanks. I found this place in Alhambra. It’s in a woman’s basement. I think it’s a front
So where should we go tonight? A bar? A club? A movie?
All right, time to open Bachelor Number Two.
That’s okay. Y ou can just sleep here.
Oh, gosh, Amy. I don’t know if I would call this an actual slumber party.
Not even when you were a kid?
Okay. Well, I guess we’re having a slumber party. Oh!
Howard has a hairy chest?
Okay, there you go, Sultry Sunrise Red. What do you think?
And that, girls, is how you make a phony phone call.
Okay, it’s your game. You go first.
Wait. No, Amy, you’re supposed to ask her something personal or embarrassing.
What the hell was that?
Truth.
Dare.
Okay, look, just because we’re not seeing each other anymore doesn’t mean we can’t be friends. I mean, Leonard’s a great guy.
I don’t know. He got really serious, and I wasn’t ready for it.
You can only ask one question.
You know what, I don’t want to play anymore.
Oh, hey, Amy. Look, I’m sorry I got so upset. I just,whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,whoa! What are you doing?
Oh, hey, Leonard. I see you met my dad.
Oh, gee, dad, Leonard can’t stay. He just dropped by to say hello. Thanks for stopping by, sweetie. I’ll see you later. Bye.
So you’re probably wondering what that was all about.
Yeah, okay. The thing is, I kind of told my father we got back together again.
Well, you’re the first guy he’s ever really approved of, you know? You’re a scientist who went to college and you don’t have a neck tattoo or outstanding warrants or, or a baby.
Just guys. Anyway, when I told him we split up, he was heartbroken, and he kept bugging me, how’s Leonard? why can’t you get back together with Leonard? I bet Leonard never tipped a cow over on himself. So to get him off my back, I told him we worked things out.
What?
Get over yourself. I whistled, you came running.
Okay, why are you arguing about this?
Oh, okay, whatever. Will you please just play along until my dad leaves?
Come on, honey, not in front of my dad.
Oh, dad, that’s nice, but Leonard has to work. Right, Leonard?
Oh.
So not funny, dad.
Oh, will you please let it go?
Oh, see?
Yeah, that’s great. It’s a funny story. Moving on.
Curtis, and I’m pretty sure he was joking.
Yeah, okay, I think this ends the ex-boyfriend portion of our evening.
Oh, gee, dad, he’d love to, but Leonard has to work in the morning.
No, no, no, you can’t. Your career is far too important.
Good night.
Love you, too.
Shut up. You know what I’ve been doing for the last hour?
Listening to my father go on and on about what a great guy you are.
Why are you making this so difficult?
Leonard.
No.
I don’t know.
Maybe.
Oh, my God. What personal habits?
Okay, Sheldon, you don’t have to do this because Leonard and I are not…
No, you’re right. No, there’s, there’s no plots, no trucks, no feet. So what other annoying habits shall we discuss?
I’m sorry, daddy…
Oh.
You know, I’m sorry.
You’re right. Look, from now on, I will tell you the truth.
Daddy, he had nothing to do…
Okay.
I love your little heart locket, Bernadette.
Oh, so I spent seventh grade dotting my I’s with little asses? Cool.
Hey, Zack, what are you doing here?
Yeah, I got it, I got it. Uh, Zack, these are my friends Bernadette and Amy.
Yeah, you, too.
Oh, we went out a couple of times.
No, no. But in this case, yes.
No, it was great. He just didn’t really challenge me on an intellectual level.
Wouldn’t help. Zack can’t even spell NPR.
Oh, we know what’s causing that, don’t we?
Hey. Isn’t tomorrow your usual laundry night?
That’s thinking ahead.
So how’s Amy?
Oh, no. Why?
Just going to skip over that insult.
Yeah. That’s why I’m going to skip over it. Are you saying that Amy is, oh, what’s the
Oh! Okay. Wow.
Are you sure?
I’m suggesting there might be something you could do about Amy’s urges?
Yeah. That’s not what I had in mind.
Exactly.
Oh, Amy, you lucky girl.
Hey, your copy of Science magazine was in my mailbox.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, yeah, me and Zack again.
Okay, we should, we should go.
You know, for a group of guys who claim they spent most of their lives being bullied, you can be real jerks. Shame on all of you.
What?
No.
Wait, w-w-wait-wait-wait, you’re ditching me to go look at comic books?
I’m not happy.
I’m still mad at you.
What great news?
Wait, why me? Wh-Why can’t your girlfriend be Wonder Woman?
Okay, what about your friend Amy?
Okay, well, forget it. I’m not spending my New Year’s Eve at a comic book store wearing a Wonder Woman costume.
All right. Let’s get this thing over with.
No. I’m not wearing it. It looks stupid.
Forget it. I’m not wearing the wig.
Okay. You know what? I changed my mind. I’m not going.
I’m not talking to you.
What the hell is wrong with you?
Okay. What do you want, Sheldon?
Really?
No. Wait, wait, does it?
Good-bye, Sheldon.
Go away, Sheldon.
Oh. Go away, Leonard.
It’s open.
I’m not going to that party, Leonard.
It’s not the wig.
Okay, look. We’re not really me and him.
I don’t know. I only started seeing Zack again so I wouldn’t be alone on New Year’s Eve. How pathetic is that?
You make a cute Green Arrow.
Like there’s a difference.
Whatever. Look, if Zack and I had just gone to a regular club or a party, it would have been fine, but this, with the costumes, and you.
Nothing. Let’s go to the party. How do I look?
Are you high?
Who, me?
What idea?
Okay, stop, stop!
Whatever your secret is, I’m sure it’s boring, so I’m not interested.
Bored.
Hey, wait a minute.
Hang on. Let’s see where he’s going.
Oh, great. You know what? I’ve already mooched dinner off you guys. I don’t need to listen to this.
What you doing? Trying to contact your home planet?
Oh.
Something got you down, there, Sheldon?
Oh, honey, I’m sorry.
Is that so?
Aw.
Hey, you don’t need Leonard and his app. You can make one with me.
Seriously, I have a great idea for one.
Okay, look, when you see someone wearing shoes you like, you just snap a picture of them, and the app goes on the Internet to find out where you can buy them.
Well, you don’t like it?
Why not?
And Leonard didn’t want to work with you? Imagine that.
Sheldon, I’m gonna make some cocoa. Do you want some?
Milk.
That’s what it says on the packet.
No, sorry.
What does that mean?
Hi. I’m sorry to bother you guys, but you’ve got to come take your Sheldon back.
Well, he was moping down in the lobby, so I invited him over, and now I regret it.
Look, can’t you just let him play with you until bedtime?
Okay. What if I got him to apologize and promise to behave?
Okay. Wait right here.
Oh, yes. He says they are lost without you.
That’s right.
No, no, no. You know, they have suffered enough. Everybody’s suffered enough. The thing is, you’re going to have to offer him a face-saving way out of this.
Say you’re sorry.
Okay. Um, how about this? You know how you’re always trying to learn about sarcasm?
No?
Oh. Good for you. So all you have to do here is say you’re sorry to Leonard, but say it sarcastically.
Yeah. Yeah, that was my plan. All right. Come on. Let’s go.
Oh, you’re welcome.
Okay, these are Uggs. These are Crocs. These are knockoff Manolo Blahniks.
Look, you said it yourself, we have to create a database before you can write an alga-thingy.
Bored. Okay. These are Steve Maddens. These are Nine West. These are Target. Oh, but don’t they look like Chanel? These are Michael Kors. These are Roxy. These are Sachel’s. Oh, these are Betsy Johnson, they’re so cute…
Hey. So you guys ready to order?
Okay. So, the usual, with extra spit on Sheldon’s hamburger.
Oh, gee, Amy, I’m sorry, I’m actually pretty busy this weekend.
The what?
Oh. Oh, okay, well, you know, like I said, I have plans, so.
I’m your best friend?
Oh, don’t feel bad. I never read Leonard’s, and I used to sleep with him.
No, I really, I’m sorry, free what? Sorry, what, what?
Wait, wait, just to be clear, when you guys say spa, does that mean the same thing as when regular people say it?
You know, it is going to be difficult, but I’m going to cancel my plans so I can do this for my bestie.
I, I wasn’t going to.
Boy, this is great. I haven’t had a vacation in ages.
You know, for a smart guy, you really seem to have a hard time grasping the concept, don’t piss off the people who handle the things you eat.
Yay!
Brawny?
So, Amy, I’ve been wondering, are you and Sheldon going to be sharing a room?
Hey.
Oh. Thanks.
Terrific. Are we there yet?
Uh, I don’t know. Are you food?
Well, it’s a table, right? I mean, why can’t there be food on it?
Who elected you Road Trip God?
I don’t understand why you people just let him bully you like this. Someone should stand up to him. What’s he going to do?
I can’t believe you let him kick me out of the car.
Should I ask?
Red Leader, I’m really sorry.
You know what? I missed you, too.
Will do.
Um, sure. What do you, what do you got in mind?
Um, I never really thought about it. Why?
Really?
Again, I’ve never given it much thought.
Yeah. Why, what happened?
Oh, yeah, that. Come on in.
We are?
Oh, right, right, the blog.
Hey, can I stay here tonight?
Well, Howard’s a complete and total ass, Bernadette’s in my bed, and no matter how much you stroke Amy’s hair, she bites.
Never mind. Can I stay here or not?
All right.
Well, I’m not getting in bed with him.
We’re just gonna have to make the best of this.
Sleep.
The what?
Oh, okay. Just like old times.
Sweetie, let me put this in a way you’ll understand. From the waist down, my shields are up.
Go to sleep.
We are not having coitus.
Yes.
Leonard, are you asleep?
I really appreciate you letting me stay here tonight.
I know it’s kinda weird.
True dat?
Right. Still mad at me about that?
Thank you.
Good for you.
Good night. You know, maybe it wouldn’t be the worst idea in the world to violate the Neutral Zone for just one night. Oh!
Hey, Leonard, is your wi-fi down? I can’t get on.
Thanks. What are you guys doing?
Oh. How’d he do?
That bad, huh?
Listening to Dr. Cooper has made me want to start cutting myself again
Oh, please let me tell him.
What?
I’m not an actress. I’m an actress.
You want an acting lesson?
Okay, where is this coming from?
Yeah, I saw those. They were funny. I printed a few out and put ’em on my fridge.
Okay, just to be clear. You are asking me for help because I know something that the brilliant Dr. Sheldon Cooper doesn’t.
I think it’s the only way to look at it.
Probably. I’m just enjoying the foreplay. Does this mean you are done mocking my acting career?
Forget it.
Saturday, nine a.m. Bring cash.
What’s wrong?
You were acting?
Well, good for you. Come on in.
Well, I thought we’d start with some basic movement exercises. You know, get our bodies warmed up a little.
So I just want you to relax and kind of move around in the space. You know, just do whatever feels natural. Sheldon?
Come on, you got to work with me. We need to get connected with our bodies.
All right, let’s just say we’ve warmed up.
Okay. One of the things that might help you in connecting with your students is being a little more spontaneous. So why don’t we try some improvisation?
This is all about listening and responding.
I’m going to create a character and a situation, and you just jump in when you feel it.
All right.
Okay, it’s not a movie. It’s improv. So no one calls action.
Okay. Uh, no, the shipment has not arrived, and I really need those shoes. They are my biggest seller. Yes, ladies sizes six through ten. Thank you. Oh, sorry, I have to go, I have a customer. Bye-bye. Hi. Can I help you?
Yogurt?
Um, okay, sure. Luckily, we sell both shoes and yogurt here.
Yes. Look up at the sign, and remember, improv is always about saying yes.
What?
Okay, you know what? Let’s just try a different improv. Uh, oh, this time we will be two winos living under a freeway overpass.
You bet. I had dreams, you know. I was gonna be famous. Show everybody back home I could be someone. Now look at me. Want some?
So, did you get a chance to go over the scene I gave you?
Okay, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof is an American classic.
Fine. What would you rather do as a scene study?
And you think it’s better than Tennessee Williams?
Where No Sheldon Has Gone Before.
KMN.
Okay, that’s fine, but let’s try and get you out of your comfort zone.
Okay, the whole point of this is to loosen you up a little, so I’m thinking you’ll play the role of your mother, and I will bring life to Mr. Spock.
It’s only logical.
All right.
Okay, okay. We get it. You set the scene.
Now just read your mother’s line.
Woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo. Spock to Enterprise. Transport successful.
Greetings, Mary Cooper. I am Spock.
Just keep going!
We have been monitoring your son Sheldon from the 23rd Century, and we have determined that he is now ready to join us. His unique genius is our best hope for bringing peace to a vast and troubled galaxy.
Okay, okay, let’s try that last line again, and this time, maybe try choking up a little.
Well, you’re losing your son.
All right, come on, just try it my way. Pretend you’re sad to see him go. I’m gonna lead you in. His unique genius is our best hope for bringing peace to a vast and troubled galaxy. That’s your cue.
All right, come on, come on. Put some real emotion into it. Blah-blah, blah, blah, vast and troubled galaxy. Go.
That’s good. That’s good. That’s good.
Okay, I guess we’re improvising now.
There you go.
Yeah, just tuck that part in your pants; you’ll be fine.
Oh, Howard, I can’t believe Bernadette let you go to a fancy party wearing a dickey.
Sheldon, it’s Saturday night, you’ll be doing laundry.
Yes, Sheldon. Keep watching.
Leonard, are you okay?
Okay, we can’t keep explaining everything. Read that book we got you.
You’re really a broken toy, aren’t you?
What was all that about me trading sexual favours for material gain?
He still won’t shag the old lady, huh?
Good morning, slut.
Oh, please, I recognize the walk of shame when I see it. All you’re missing is a little smeared mascara and a purse with panties wadded up in it.
Oh, yeah.
I believe that’s what your roommate did to her.
Again, read the book we gave you.
Hey!
Oh, yeah, you, too.
Sheldon!
Okay. Why?
Amy, I’m fine.
What?
Really, I am not upset about Leonard and Priya.
Oh. Well, good for him. Hey, what do you mean, more suitable?
Yeah. Okay, I got it. I got it. So, what is all that stuff?
Ooh, I thought I smelled pizza.
Oh, yes. Hi, hi. I’m sorry. I didn’t know you had company. I don’t want to impose.
If I had more than a box of baking soda in my refrigerator, I wouldn’t have to take that.
Hi. So, um, Priya, you’re a lawyer, right?
I’m fine.
Oh, yeah, yeah. It’s real great. Today I drove to Van Nuys for an audition I thought was going to be for a cat food commercial. Turned out to be porn.
I didn’t do the audition.
Oh, hey. What’s up?
Why?
I already told you, I’m okay with it. I mean, if anything, I’m quite pleased that Leonard has found someone that makes him so happy.
Thank you.
Okay.
I smell Chinese food.
Are Leonard and Priya here?
Oh. Where’s Raj?
How about Howard?
Oh, okay. Well, I guess it’s just the two of us, huh?
Great.
Not really.
Oh, sweetie, it’s okay. I don’t want tea.
Oh. Hey, Sheldon. What can I get ya?
Where are all your friends?
Okay.
Well, I was getting your stupid umbrella, but all right. What’s troubling you, buddy?
Oh, the horror.
Ugh!
There you go. Just like recovering alcoholics drink in the Caribbean.
Oh. Hi, Amy. How you been?
Yeah, it’s a great time to be alive, isn’t it?
Look, Sheldon, Leonard is dating Priya. She is staying with Raj. That means you’re all probably gonna be hanging out there more.
Okay, I’m not upset about Leonard and Priya.
A lot of people think I’m fun to be around.
Ooh, I got one. If you guys were a band, you’d be called Leonard and the Leonards.
Oh, hey.
What’s up?
I kind of figured that.
No.
Oh. Gee, thanks, but I’m not really in the mood.
Okay, look, if I agree to go out with you guys, will you promise to stop pestering me about Leonard and Priya?
All right. I’ll go change. Come on in.
So, where do you guys want to go dancing?
Oh, yeah, I know that place. What do you think?
Okay, let’s go through this one more time. Just because Leonard has a new girlfriend does not mean I need to go out and hook up with some guy.
Well, yeah, I guess.
More or less.
I don’t know. It’s fun while you’re doing it. And then after, it’s mostly embarrassment, self-loathing and regret.
Yeah, well, it’s not gonna happen tonight. You know, for the first time in my life, I am not in a relationship, and I’m totally okay with it.
Um, no.
Oh, it’s a snowflake from the North Pole. Leonard gave it to me last year.
Yeah, it was.
Let me see that. Oh, screw it. I can deal with a little self-loathing. Let’s go find me a heinie to bite.
One, two, three, four, five. No way.
Seven of clubs! That is amazing!
Oh, big deal. Not knowing is part of the fun.
Hey, you look great. Good for you, Priya. I could never get that stupid hoodie off him when we were… well, you look great.
I’m not going out with him. He can sleep with whoever he wants.
Oopsy.
You know, well, I’m happy Leonard’s found someone. Not that anybody asked.
Oh, unbelievable! Know how he did it yet?
Aw, he has the same look my little nephew gets when he can’t figure out how I got his nose.
Hey, I think I know how you did the card trick.
Come here.
Not too bad for someone who doesn’t know what axiomatic means.
Hey, you. What happened with the contacts?
Hey, is that one of the new shirts Priya got you?
You don’t wanna wash that.
No, that’s silk. Seriously, what would you do without me?
You know, I gotta tell you, I think you got a real winner with Priya.
She seems really sweet. Believe me, you do not want to take that for granted. There are a lot of bitches out there.
All right, well I’ll see you later.
What?
Did they make a movie about it?
Then no.
Okay.
Uh, a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush?
It’s fun talking to you, Leonard, I always learn stuff.
Hey! Look at Leonard in his fancy-ass grownup clothes. Way to go, Priya. For once, he doesn’t look like a mannequin in the boys’ department. Hey, did he tell you I saved the silk shirt?
He was gonna throw it in the washing machine with his Spiderman underwear. That’s our Lenny, huh?
So, how’s the food here? Oh, wow, that is really, really good. Oh, I’m sorry. You guys are on a date. We can hang out anytime. Have fun.
Oh, that’s, hot, hot, hot, hot! Whoo! It really sneaks up on ya, huh? All right, I gotta go.
Oh, hey, I was just on my way to work.
No, it’s all right. Walk me down. So, what’s up?
Sure, anything.
What?
Okay, I’m not moving anywhere. What the hell is this all about?
Oh, for god’s sake, Leonard, this is about Priya, isn’t it? She doesn’t want me hanging out with you.
Okay, look, I happen to like your girlfriend.
No, she doesn’t.
It doesn’t matter. Look, I promise from now on I will keep my distance from you.
You can hear my toilet flush?
Leonard, I get it. You’re in a new relationship now. And I’m happy for you. So why don’t we just shake hands and part friends?
Are you really that kind of guy?
Good-bye, Leonard.
Hey.
Oh, I know. Bernadette told me. Sorry, Sheldon. I know that game meant a lot to you.
Okay, well, anyways, I brought you a day-old cheesecake to cheer you up!
Just say thank you.
All right. See you later.
Oh, hi! I was just dropping off a cheesecake to Sheldon. He was robbed of a bunch of imaginary crap that’s useful in a make-believe place.
Yeah, well, sadly, I do.
Did you know last weekend Priya took Leonard rollerblading at the beach? Can you believe that?
I am the one who spent two years trying to get him to even go to the beach in the first place. And he was so phobic about stepping on medical waste, I had to carry him to the water.
So what’s the thanks I get for turning Leonard into quality boyfriend material? I have to tiptoe around his new girlfriend.
Want some coffee liqueur on your ice cream?
You guys should’ve seen Leonard when I first met him. There was no eye contact. He was either looking up at the ceiling, or down at his shoes.
You know, for the first couple of months, whenever I would take off my bra, he would giggle and say, oh boy, my breast friends.
No, don’t do that. No reason to be mean to her.
No, but I can name all the Kardashians.
Okay, be nice.
Hi. We’re just heading out for a drink.
Don’t listen to her, she’s had a lot of ice cream. Do you want to join us?
No problem. So, Leonard, I think it’s interesting you didn’t call your girlfriend to come get you.
So you lied to her. Also interesting.
Well, doesn’t matter if she gets it, as long as she’s pretty.
So did you at least get Sheldon’s fake stuff back?
How come?
All right. Hang on.
I’m gonna show you how we finish a quest in Nebraska. Oh. Beyonce. This ain’t no Beyonce.
Give my friend his stuff back.
Well, then, good news. Today’s the day a girl’s finally going to touch you in your little special place. Now give him his stuff back.
Oh, hi.
Going to see Leonard?
Fine. You?
Alright, well great seeing you.
Amy’s right. I do want to fling my poop at her.
Hey! How’s it going?
‘Course I heard about it. How did you hear about it?
Oh, damn it. I told Amy that in the strictest confidence. Boy, some people are such blabbermouths. Well, whatever, I’m sure Bernadette can do better.
You are kidding. Raj likes Bernadette?
Okay, give. How do you know? Did he tell you?
Well, then who?
Priya told you. What a little gossip. You know, not an attractive quality in a woman, Leonard. Not judging, just my opinion.
You don’t have to worry. Unlike Amy and Priya, I know how to keep a secret.
In confidence!
Oh, hey, Amy. What’s up?
Hey, 16 wants to order appetizers.
What the hell are you doing? Howard is your best friend, and that is his girlfriend. You should be ashamed of yourself.
Well, I know that. How do you know that?
Oh, that gossipy bitch! No offense.
Okay, listen, just because Howard and Bernadette are having problems, does not mean you should be here sniffing around.
All right, try thinking about this. Sheldon and Amy had sex.
Yeah, it’s true. Amy told me.
I-I guess they just figured it out at some point.
Oh, hey, Amy. Bernadette just texted me. Howard proposed?
What?
Hey. What’s up?
Oh, I’m sorry, honey, I’m meeting Amy and Bernadette for dinner. But you’re welcome to tag along.
Okay, suit yourself. We’ll probably be trashing Priya a little.
Okay, I’d like to propose a toast to a wonderful girls night out.
I felt sorry for him. Priya’s giving him a hard time.
Pantsuits suck.
That’s too many S’s for kissing.
Sheldon, have you ever kissed a girl?
Yeah, you’re a scientist, where is the curiosity?
Hey, I know, let’s take Sheldon dancing.
Did you take dance lessons?
Oh, we are so taking you dancing.
Take us to a place we can waltz.
Shake it baby, shake it!
Oh, what the hell. Ooh!
Glad you’re enjoying yourself.
I’m fine.
Yeah, I said I’m fine. Stop talking to me.
Screw it. I’ll go later.
Oh, that’s nice.
Okay, Amy, you’re being silly. I am not concerned about who hangs out with who. And I certainly don’t have a problem with Leonard’s new girlfriend who wears way too much makeup. Ooh, these are cute. Of course if I buy them, I’ll have to rent my womb out to a gay couple.
Wait. What are you talking about?
Okay, I don’t know you people. I’m just an innocent woman wondering if this shoe store will take my Texaco card.
No. Once these puppies touch the ground they’re mine, and I’ll have to wear them walking up and down Hollywood Boulevard in order to pay them off. Pretty, pretty, pretty.
The what?
Hey. Seriously? Didn’t you get enough of this cliquey crap in high school?
None?
Wh… What the hell did she say?
That bitch!
Um, okay. Tell Bernadette to tell Priya that I’m on my way to Prague to shoot a movie with Angelina Jolie.
What? I don’t know. It doesn’t matter.
What?
What, are they getting engaged?
All right, look, just forget about the astronaut.
Look, just find out what’s up with this trip to India.
Don’t you quit on us!
Hey, do me a favour and take table seven.
Nah, I prefer to look at it as the one with my ex-boyfriend and his gorgeous, successful and sophisticated girlfriend, who makes me feel like a toothless Okie.
Oh, please, you’re not that kind of person.
Hey.
Haven’t seen you in a while. How’s it going?
I don’t know, maybe, I have no idea what you said.
My mirth. Classic.
It’s not a big deal, Sheldon. It’s just, ever since Leonard’s been dating Raj’s sister, I’ve had to keep my distance. I don’t get to hear all your jibber-jabber.
What are you doing at work these days?
Alright, come on, even you have to admit that’s jibber-jabber.
Oh, my God, you’re about to jibber-jabber about jibber-jabber.
Oh, my God! What happened?
Okay.
Okay, well, your friend and his mother are there, we’re going.
Oh, don’t tell me you’re afraid of germs.
Okay, you know what? You are unbelievable. You buy all these superhero T-shirts, but when it’s time for you to step up and do the right thing, you just hide in the laundry room.
Hang on a second, you picked up your mother? Her own legs are barely able to do that.
Yeah, I’m saying, it’d be easier to lift a car.
What’s the difference?
Thanks for clearing that up.
Okay, you’re not helping.
How else is she supposed to take it?
Well, he’s my friend. It’s what you do.
It’s just so weird. Howard Wolowitz is my friend. You know, once he tried to stick his tongue down my throat and I broke his nose.
Yeah, tell me about it.
You mean when he was little.
You know, this stuff is horrible. You want to see if we can find the cafeteria and get real coffee?
You want to talk about crazy mothers, Leonard’s mom wouldn’t give him any sort of approval growing up.
It makes him desperate to please women. That’s why the foreplay goes on and on.
It’s like he’s trying to win a prize. A word of advice, don’t doze off. You will never hear the end of it.
Yeah, I know, right?
We were just comparing notes about how you are in the sack.
Yeah.
Hey, you guys ready to order?
Okay, Priya?
Yeah, a little tip: he says he can eat frozen yoghurt. Do not believe it.
Oh!
Wow, so that means you’re a doctor, you’re a doctor, you’re a doctor, you’re a doctor, and Howard, you know a lot of doctors.
Yeah, just a heads-up on the car window deal. It helps, but everything is not peachy.
Thanks. Wow! What’s with the fancy spread?
What do you mean, new roommate? What happened to Leonard?
All right, let me try this again. Where’s Leonard?
Woah, Leonard and Priya are living together? That’s big.
Oh, no, no, no. I’ve had way too much already.
Hit me.
Monkeys.
When a suitcase just won’t do.
Okay, explain something to me. You watch Leonard put up with that guy for years and years. What has to break inside your brain for you to think, Oh, Krishna, I’ve got to get me some of that?
What? Oh, God, yeah. Yeah. Leonard’s a noisy little dude in the sack.
Really? Even during allergy season, when he has to alternate between kissing and breathing?
Yeah. Sorry, sorry. Can I tell you a secret?
I screwed up. Leonard’s a great guy. Never should have broken up with him.
Oh, you poor baby.
Nothing, nothing. You know, if we weren’t friends, and you hadn’t brought up that creepy pornography story, I’d be on you like the speed of light squared on matter to make energy.
I listen. I have no idea what it means, but I listen. To friendship.
Oh. It’s, it’s not what it looks like.
Coming. Yup, that’s good. Wine glasses should have handles.
You heard what I did?
Oh, my God, I screwed up everything. I hurt Leonard, I hurt Raj, I mean, what is wrong with me? I feel like two totally different people, Dr. Jekyll and Mrs. Whore.
No.
I’m… I’m sorry. What does this have to do with me?
You know, I’ve done this before. In kindergarten, I was supposed to marry Jason Sorensen at recess, but by the time my class got out there, he was already engaged to Chelsea Himmelfarb. So what did I do? Hung upside down from the monkey bars, let all the boys see my underpants.
You know what? Let’s get out of here.
Somewhere where no one’s seen me naked. We may have to drive awhile.
Can I stay at your place for a few nights?
Yeah, sure. Yay!
Sounds great.
Yeah, I’m gonna go pack a bag.
You know, I don’t even know what the point of me staying in L.A. is. I haven’t gotten a single acting job since I moved out here. The closest I came was last month, I got a callback for a hemorrhoid commercial.
I know, right? Maybe I should just move back to Nebraska.
Why not?
How did you know I was here?
Thanks.
So, hi. What’s up?
Oh. Gee, that’s really sweet, but the thing is…
Look, honey, I was really drunk and made a huge mistake last night. We should’ve never slept together. It’s what ruins friendships.
Come here. Just listen to me. I want to go back to the way we were before. You know, friends. No sprinkles.
Thank you.
Oh, God. Did you pull some weird Indian crap on me?
Oh, you did, didn’t you?
So, we didn’t actually…
Oh!
Of course I won’t. No, I won’t.
Sure.
No.
Also no.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Okay. Raj, wait. Thank you for being my friend.
Mm-hmm?
Hi. You guys have a minute?
Okay. Um. Well, I already talked to Raj, but I wanted to apologize to the rest of you for, you know, everything.
Hey, what you doing, Quick Draw?
Anyways, I wanted you guys all to know that I’ve been taking a really hard look at things and come to the conclusion I have to stop kidding myself. I suck at acting. It’s time for me to move back to Nebraska.
Yeah.
I don’t know, maybe teach acting. Oh, sorry. Hold on. Hello?
Shh! It’s my agent, it’s my agent. You’re kidding. Oh, my gosh. I can’t believe it! Really? Oh, I’m so excited, thank you, thank you so much. Okay, bye. I got the haemorrhoid commercial! I start Monday.
Oh, hell with Nebraska. I’m gonna be a star!
Shh! Here comes my joke.
Oh, it’s no problem. It’s actually kind of nice. You reading, me reading. We’re like an old married couple.
I don’t have iced tea and snickerdoodles.
I want a divorce.
It’s great, isn’t it?
What name?
Oh, all right, well, I’m glad you like it. I mean, I still can’t get over the fact someone just threw it away.
Yeah, it was just sitting on the street. I paid a homeless guy ten bucks to help me get it up here.
What is wrong?
Sheldon, take it easy.
I went into this marriage with so much hope.
Yello.
Okay, relax. I took off the slipcovers, had them dry-cleaned and then fumigated the cushions.
Yeah. It’s cleaner than my couch. Found half a Hot Pocket in there.
Why don’t you give it a try, Sheldon?
Why don’t you just admit you overreacted?
What’s up, buttercup?
Nope.
What’s the word, hummingbird?
No.
What’s the gist, physicist?
Pretty cool, huh? Probably would cost, like, two hundred bucks in a store.
You’re kidding.
And now me.
And what’s that?
No, it’s completely fine. Hmm. I get it. Sheldon sent you. He put you up to this.
Really?
My God, Amy, that’s really crappy of you.
Yeah! Letting Sheldon use you to manipulate me? I thought you were my friend.
I can’t even believe this. You know, maybe you should just go.
What’s wrong?
Wait. Get up, get up! Swear you won’t tell Sheldon what happened!
Ooh, me.
Thank you all for this high honour.
All right, I got to go to work. I’ll walk down with you.
Okay, I’m not driving him.
You’re a brain scientist. Can you explain to me why a brilliant man likes playing with toy trains?
Really? For a wedding?
Aw. So handsome. Like James Bond.
Oh, sweetie, guests don’t normally wear corsages to a wedding. That’s more of a prom thing.
Put the corsage on her.
Ames, hi. How was the wedding?
Come in, let’s talk. Do you want a glass of wine?
Okay, I’m sorry, what exactly happened?
Oh, God, did he make a move on you?
Yeah, I’m sure he’ll be okay.
So, um, what are you gonna do? Do you want me to talk to Leonard, let him down easy?
Yeah, my bikini region is fine.
Oh, the poor guy’s so lonely. We should set him up with someone.
Well, hello? She’s married.
Okay, so future grief-stricken widow is the one to beat.
Um, Howard, can I see you for a minute, please?
Uh, no, that’s not it. Just come with me, please.
Um, Raj, there’s someone I want you to meet. This is my friend Emily. I know her from my spin class. Raj, relax. She can’t hear you. She’s deaf.
Oh! Look at you guys just hitting it off. I am so good.
Mustache is looking good there, Sheldon.
Is Raj out with Emily again?
Wow, can’t believe he has a girlfriend.
You’re kidding.
Oh, of course not. She wouldn’t do something like that. She’s deaf.
Handicapped people are nice, Leonard. Everyone knows that.
Wait, hang on. Doubles. Roll again.
What do you mean, vastly wealthy?
Well, so how much is that?
Okay, so he’s got money, and it’s a few gifts and a car.
What? He paid off her credit cards? Damn it, I could’ve dated Raj for a couple months. But I, I wouldn’t have, because I’m not that kind of girl. We should really talk to Raj.
No. I’m the one that introduced him to her. I’ve got to say something.
You’re engaged to my friend.
I can’t believe you’re engaged to my friend. Oh, here she comes.
Hi.
Um, can we talk to you about Raj?
Okay, um, gosh, how do I start? Um, see, Raj is kind of naive. I mean, he hasn’t dated a whole lot of women. And I’m concerned that, without meaning to, you might be taking advantage of him. You know, by letting him buy you a bunch of expensive things.And I.. I… Howard, focus. Tell her what I’m saying.
Okay, wait…
We didn’t mean for it to be an ambush. Just, it’s kind of impossible not to sneak up on deaf people. And hey, since when are you so chatty?
Raj, come here. This girl is trouble. I mean, what kind of relationship is it where you buy her gifts and she gives you sex?
Okay, come on. You know you can do better.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
I don’t have feelings.
He is cuter now that I know he’s rich.
I know, I know.
Oh, I’m so sorry. I wish I could make you feel better.
What? No!
Here you go, boys. I’ll pick it up when you’re ready.
Oh, and don’t cheap out on the tip. We all know you’re loaded now.
Wait, what is going on?
No, no, no, no, I didn’t forget. Um, there’s this cat in a box and until you open it, it’s either dead or alive or both. Although, back in Nebraska, our cat got stuck in my brother’s camp trunk, and we did not need to open it to know there was all kinds of dead cat in there.
Wil Wheaton is Sheldon’s mortal enemy.
Mm-hmm.
Oh, say no, say no, say no, say no.
No, I was there that day. Sheldon threw his back out handing him that book.
Okay, why don’t you just tell him you made a mistake?
Well, that, that’s good. I’m glad you came to that. But before you do, let me just ask you a big picture question.
Are you a hundred percent positive you love and want to marry Howard Wolowitz?
Got it. Just had to check.
Sheldon, you didn’t tell me your mom was coming.
Good, good.
Oh, fine. You know, it’s been a while. I’m getting back out there.
Well, it’s super cute on. That top has paid for itself in free drinks like ten times what it cost.
Oh, they don’t always get to ride the roller coaster. Sometimes they only get to spin the teacups. Now I’m going out tonight. Would it be crazy to ask you to look at the outfit I’m going to wear?
Ooh, maybe a little Rodeo Drive.
This is like the worst Hollywood tour ever.
Hey, they have wine here, don’t they?
Okay, um, hey, God. What’s up? Um, I’m good, but, uh, it would be a big help to my family if you could get my brother to stop cooking meth. But no cops. Be cool.
Oh, Mrs. Cooper, it smells so good.
Hey, guys.
Oh. Yeah. That’s gone. It’s a rough month when Halloween and PMS hit at the same time.
What’s with him?
It’s open.
Yeah, sure, come on in.
Want some mac and cheese?
Glass of wine?
Okay, well, I’d offer you Halloween candy, but that’s gone. So, what’s up?
Oh, my God, that’s where I know you from.
All right, what’s going on?
Yes.
It’s okay.
Okay, good, because there’s this one guy I used to date who’s about to be force-fed wine and cheese if he doesn’t get to the point.
Yeah, probably.
I’m sorry, go ahead.
Did you guys do it?
Oh, look at you, you bad boy. Did you tell her about Priya?
That’s gross.
Well, good for you.
So sleep with the new girl and lie to Priya.
All right, then break it off with the new girl.
If you like this girl so much, why don’t you just end things with Priya?
Leonard, you’re looking for a way to sleep with both women and have everybody be happy about it.
What does your gut tell you?
So, Bernadette, how goes the hunt for bridesmaid dresses?
Yeah, and cap sleeves? U-u-uh.
Okay, that time you looked at me.
All right, who wants to go to my apartment and look at bridal magazines?
Through no one’s fault, Sheldon, we’re leaving.
Thank you. Where’s Sheldon?
Why?
Okay, look, this is her first time being a bridesmaid and she’s just getting a little crazy with it.
Yeah, and she keeps trying to figure out if our cycles have synced up so we can call ourselves the Three Menstra-teers
I know. Me, too. We’ll talk to her. Hey, wait, how did she find out?
What do you tell him?
No. All your little secrets are fine.
Hi.
Well, look, we just wanted to apologize for not bringing you with us the other day.
Look, come on, Amy, look, let us make it up to you. We’ll have a girl’s night, we’ll do whatever you want.
With-with loofah mitts, no hands.
Yeah, we feel awful.
Oh, come on, Amy.
I don’t really want to.
Hi.
I never gave you a friendship bracelet.
No, you made that for you, I want you to have it.
We are really sorry, and we were trying to think of some way to show you how much we care about you.
Yeah, sure, sure. Vegas is fun, too.
Sorry.
Okay, yeah.
Oh! Bernadette, you look beautiful!
Oh, Amy! Get the hell out of here!
Oh, God. Amy!
Hey.
Yeah. I’ve got eight pounds of salmon that’s about to go bad. Do you know how to cook it?
Damn it. Should have liberated the iffy chicken. What are you and Professor Fussyface up to tonight?
Haven’t you seen that movie, like, a thousand times?
Oh, Leonard.
Well, I’m going to take myself out to a movie tonight. You want to go?
What do you mean?
Oh, it’s not a date, Leonard. It’s just a man and a woman hanging out, and not having sex at the end of the night.
What is that about?
Really? On top of everything else, you’re afraid of birds?
So movies, yes or no?
Great. I’ll see you later. And remember, he’s more afraid of you than you are of him.
No, I was talking to the bird.
Oh, hey, if we hurry, we can make the new Jennifer Aniston movie.
Okay, but the Jennifer Aniston movie has Jennifer Aniston, and she’s not building a dam.
Okay.
You pick plenty of movies.
But come on, that is a great movie, and it starts in ten minutes.
No, you don’t.
Okay, so while we were going out, how often would you pretend to like things just to have sex with me?
You’re kidding.
Okay, we were going out. You were going to get sex anyway.
No. No woman would.
All right, fine.
No, I was thinking how come they get to leave and I can’t.
Uh, no, thanks.
I just eat the little crispy ones you don’t like.
To get sex.
All right, I’d like an order of fries.
What you writing there?
I Hope Alex Gets Crabs: The Movie.
Oh.
Oh. Penny. Nice to meet you.
Oh, no, no. This isn’t a date, no. Right?
So have you written anything I might have seen?
Oh, yeah. Sure. Just one sec?
What’s up?
What am I doing?
No, I’m talking to him because he’s cute.
Yes, he is. With his dorky T-shirt and his little hipster glasses.
Yes, but when you’re tall and have great cheekbones, you’re doing it ironically.
You should.
Good! Go! There are some girls right over there. What are you waiting for?
Hey. Sorry I ditched you.
Oh, no, no. We said we were going to hang out, let’s hang out.
Oh, he had to leave.
Huh? I’m sorry, get what?
No, no. I want to know what you told her.
Oh. Okay, I see. So while he was telling you things, did he mention he owns not one, but two Star Trek uniforms?
Yeah. Wears them. Not just for Halloween.
Okay. Then I’ll return the favour, and I won’t tell…
Laura that half the dirty movies you own are animated.
Did you tell her about your lucky asthma inhaler?
A… S… Take me home.
Okay, I’m not innocent in all this, but you basically called me stupid, you asthmatic dumbass.
All right. Thank you. I’m sorry, too.
Way off.
I don’t know. Up until the last part, I was kind of enjoying take-charge Leonard with a little backbone. Picking the movie, knowing what he wants, a little cocky.
Yeah.
Ooh. Maybe I like it.
Good night, Leonard.
Well, ladies, we killed the bottle.
Okay, don’t judge me. So, what do you want to do, go to the movies, go dancing, lay down for a little bit?
Hey, you know, my mom smoked pot when she was pregnant with me, and I turned out just fine. Hey, look, I have peach schnapps. Thank God.
What’s wrong?
Amy, little vixen. Just working it under all those layers of wool and polyester.
Oh, she doesn’t have a boyfriend, she has a Sheldon. So do you like Stuart?
Okay, look, sweetie, we all love Sheldon, but you’ve been with him over a year now. If it’s not going anywhere, what does it hurt to look around?
Yeah, for what it’s worth, engaged people can look around, too. Lot of options out there.
Hello, Sheldon. Come on in.
What’s up?
I’m sorry, what?
God, are you trying to make Amy jealous?
Okay, listen to me. Playing games is not gonna help get Amy back.
All right, honey, let me tell you a story. There was a guy I liked, and I never told him how I felt. Eventually, he started going out with someone else, and I always regretted it. Do you see where I’m going with this?
Mm.
You’re not the guy.
I call everyone sweetie.
Look, Sheldon, all I’m saying is strap on a pair and go talk to Amy.
Oh, sweetie, you are so not the guy.
Okay. If you can’t get me to stop eating your food, what makes you think you can get me to stop using your Wi-Fi?
Sure.
What’s yours?
Basketball Pope.
What are you gonna do about your bully? Are you gonna see him?
All right, well, what do you think he wants?
Hmm. That’s too bad. We could have spent New Year’s Eve waiting for the ball to drop.
‘Cause when I wear it, it’s a shirt. So, what’s Howard doing tonight?
Oh, terrific. High school quarterback against four mathletes.
Hmm, he’s not crazy about needles, but if you get him to go jogging, it’ll just pour out of his nose.
Oh, that’s awful.
Wow. You poor thing.
Oh. I don’t know. I guess my school was a nice place. We didn’t really have bullies.
No, we weren’t really like that. I mean, look, we played pranks on each other, but it was never mean. Like, okay, this one girl, Kathy Geiger, got really good grades, so we blindfolded her, tied her up and left her in a cornfield overnight.
No, it was funny. Everyone laughed.
Uh, probably. It’s hard to say. She kind of had an ear of corn in her mouth.
What? I was not a bully.
Anyway, I’m really sorry I made fun of your stutter in high school.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Oh, God, just finish the sentence. Okay, well, I’m sorry you feel that way. Bye. No one wants to hear my apologies.
That’s easy for you to say. You weren’t just called a b-b-b-b-bitch.
Both.
I actually knew that.
Ooh, I can’t do that. If I stand over a steaming pot, my hair just goes boing! What else could I do?
Okay, come on, I don’t even have my own house, I’m going to build one for someone else?
Oh, my God, that’s perfect. ‘Cause I have so many clothes I don’t wear, and they’re just taking up space, and I go shopping to buy more stuff and I have no place to put it. This will totally fix that.
And helping people.
Ah, I feel just like Mother Teresa. Except for the virgin part. That ship sailed a long time ago.
Yeah, well, I bet her laundry room wasn’t down five flights of stairs. You know, giving really is better than receiving. I used to think it was such a cliche, but it seems to be the… oh, look at these cute jeans someone just threw away.
Yes, to a poor waitress who loves a boot cut.
Come on, they would be so cute on me, and, ah, they go great with this sweater!
Then sit in the car and keep it running.
Come on, yoga top. Mama needs a new yoga top.
Wait, wait, wait, guys, just hang on.
Look at us. What are we doing?
You know, this is wrong. Let’s put everything back. Here.
Ooh, look who’s out on a date. Pasadena’s favourite power couple, Shamy.
So, are we celebrating anything special tonight?
That is so hot.
So, are we ready to order?
Sheldon, what is wrong with you?
Okay, Amy just told you some exciting news, and you acted like it was no big deal.
Honey, she’s upset. You’re her boyfriend. You have to at least try to be excited by the things she’s excited by.
Well, just smile and think about koalas.
Oh, my God, now I know what I sound like to you when I say stupid stuff.
Okay, I don’t think Amy wants a pocket watch.
Still saying stupid stuff. Ooh, does she like bracelets?
Trust me, we are not a couple.
Fine, go ahead.
He’s in trouble with his girlfriend and needs to buy her a present.
Ooh, are these real diamonds?
Eight o’clock. Sheldon, that pocket watch is ridiculous.
I said, hey, want to come over and hang out?
Hi.
Okay, he wants to talk to you.
Sheldon, you’re up.
Okay, look, he bought you this.
You look beautiful.
Why, you guys going somewhere?
You mean, like a date?
Um, o-okay. Sure.
Just a sec. Too much?
Okay, just hang on.
Uh, about two years ago.
I don’t know.
He’s not dying.
How about this?
Yeah, okay, no.
Absolutely not. Look, we’re just gonna have dinner and, you know, see how it goes.
What?
Okay, he is not dying.
Screw it. I’m not gonna make a big deal out of this. It’s just dinner.
Amy, stop it. Oh, God, I’m so nervous.
I know, but we’ve finally gotten to a place where we can hang out without it being weird. And what if something goes wrong? Then what?
Oh, that’s a good question. How about awkward?
Yeah?
Okay.
It’s Penny.
Okay, uh, let’s see. I’m from Nebraska, and ever since I was a little girl, I dreamed of moving to L.A. and becoming a movie star. Anyway, after four years of acting lessons and waiting tables, I’ve done a haemorrhoid commercial and a production of Anne Frank above a bowling alley. So, you know, dreams do come true. Your turn.
Wow. Can they?
Bat-signal? What are you, some kind of nerd?
What does that mean?
You are so funny.
Leonard, this is nice. I’m so glad we did this.
Whoa. Not so fast.
Leonard, you know I will always have feelings for you.
What?
So?
How would you say it?
It’s the same thing.
You’re overthinking this.
Yes, you are. You always overthink things.
See, this is where everything goes wrong, when we talk.
Hey, I went out with this guy TJ for eight months, we never talked. To this day, I don’t even know what TJ stands for.
Do not overthink this.
Bup-bup-bup-bup-bup-bup-bup.
No talking.
Well, that was fun.
You hung in there, though.
So what do you want to do now?
I don’t know, it’s complicated.
Okay, it’s just, at the restaurant when you said you wanted us to be together again, it got very real very fast and I panicked.
Well, what if we do go out and I do something stupid and dump you again?
Come on, be serious.
So we don’t tell people we’re back together?
Well, we don’t really have to pretend.
Okay, great. Hey, I just remembered. I still got one of your inhalers.
Yeah, I was gonna throw it away, but I just couldn’t.
Here you go, guys, let me get you going with some water. You need menus or you know what you want?
No, that’s okay, Bernadette. Sometimes these things just don’t work out.
Wow, you’re like a dog with a bone, aren’t you?
Is the point that you don’t know when to let something go?
Yeah, just hang on, Sheldon. You know why we can’t be together? Because you always have to be right.
You know what? I just realized I’m on a break. I’ll get someone else.
Mind explaining to me why you were being such a jerk at the restaurant?
No, the plan was to tell people we decided to stay friends. That’s a little hard to do when you’re always being such a tool bag.
The hell do you think you’re going?
Yeah, kind of, yeah.
What do you mean?
That’s because you overthink everything.
Why, you guys going somewhere?
Uh, have you thought this through?
Sorry, just remembered I’ve got to stop by the drugstore.
That was a really nice dinner. I’m glad you asked me out again.
You see me all the time. You sure you just don’t miss the sex?
I have. You are not wrong. I just think if we’re gonna try dating again, we should take things slow.
Okay, well, maybe not that slow.
You know, just for fun, let’s say I’m not.
You mean like a beta test?
Seriously, do I not get credit for knowing beta test?
All right. Let’s give it a shot.
Okay. Good night, Leonard.
Uh, we’re not counting this as a date, are we?
Bug report: When a guy asks me to spend time with him, maybe he plans something a little more interesting than hanging out at home, watching TV.
Even Doctor Who.
Well, thank you. I’ll see you tomorrow.
What’s this?
Well, that’s quite a list you got there.
Oh.
Yep.
Yep.
It’s open.
Yeah, hang on. Let me just finish this chapter.
No, I can’t. Reading books is a big part of my life now because, you know, we’d have more fun things to talk about if I read more.
Two Weeks to Rock Hard Abs.
All right. Terrific. Well, let me just go find a pair of shoes that aren’t so tall. We wouldn’t want you to feel like you were out for a walk with your mommy.
Yeah. Oh. Here’s my list for you, right there.
This is amazing. How did you even get this idea?
Okay, you’re kind of really great.
Okay, bug report. I just complimented you. You should take it and shut up.
And stop apologizing all the time.
All right, let’s shoot stuff. You want me to show you what to do?
Wow. You are cute when you get all gangsta.
No, you’ve got a Reebok with a gunshot wound and an ouchie on your pinkie toe.
Well, thank you for a really cool evening.
Things are looking good.
Good night, you.
What does that mean?
Sheldon, that’s not what girlfriends are for. Although, you don’t use them for what they’re for, so what do I know?
Because last month, I sent the electric company a Starbucks gift card, an apology note, and a few snapshots of me in a bra.
You know, I got some candles in my apartment.
I’ve got wine at my place and some bubble wrap we could pop.
You know, in Girl Scouts, Tammie Dinisha said you could do that with panty hose. Boy, was she wrong. Anyway, you want to make out?
Okay. Do you want to make out slow?
Ugh. Well, lucky for you, there’s nothing else to do right now.
Aw.
But he’s sad.
I think he misses his little buddy.
Hey, guys, the building manager said the reason the power went out is someone went down into the basement and just pulled the main breaker switch.
Leonard’s Day?
I’m so glad you talked Howard out of having your wedding invitations in Klingon.
Why wouldn’t you?
Ouch.
You know, I’m a big believer in breaking bad news to a guy when you’re in bed with him. That’s how I told my high school boyfriend I slept with his brother. That’s how I told his brother the same thing.
Oh, sweetie, that’s what sex is for.
Hey, you.
Yeah, I didn’t have any quarters, so I’ve been sneaking stuff into other people’s loads all day. Hey, if I tell you something, will you promise not to tell anybody?
What? That is not true. Bernadette wants a pre-nup.
So you’re saying if I became a famous movie star, we got married, you wouldn’t sign a pre-nup?
I think about a lot of things. I think about us getting married, I think about us breaking up. Once in a while, I think about how I didn’t leave a note on that Mercedes I dinged in the parking lot last month, but then I have a glass of wine and it passes.
Well, tell you one thing, if I ever do get married, no Klingon invitations.
Hey, what are you guys doing here?
No and no. Everything okay with you and Bernadette?
You and Amy? Good?
You know those girls text me every detail of their lives as it happens.
All right, Howard Wolowitz, listen up. You sign anything she puts in front of you, because you are the luckiest man alive. If you let her go, there is no way you can find anyone else. Speaking on behalf of all women, it is not gonna happen, we had a meeting. And you, a grown man fainting at the sight of a little blood.
A little something? Oh, it… what, this is huge.
Oh, no, Amy, I haven’t done anything.
Okay.
Wow. I-I don’t know what to s… Wow.
Do I like it? Wow.
Oh, my God. Hang it. Wow. Um, you know, I’d have to go get a hook and nails and a hammer and…
Oh, look. You, huh, you just, you got it all right there. Wow.
So big.
So ugly. What am I gonna do?
Is there any chance I’ll learn to love it?
All right, it’s got to go.
How about I tell her the painting makes you feel jealous because you’re not in it?
Well, I guess I could take it down and put it up when she comes over, but it’s kind of heavy.
I cannot believe you’ve never seen Grease.
Good night, real Amy.
Bye.
Ah, okay. Let us take you off the wall. Out of sight, out of mind. I wish.
Sure, sure. Enjoy. I mean, get it back to me when you can, or, you know what, actually, you keep it. It’s just going to be my gift to you. Bye.
It’s right over there.
I have no idea. That is weird.
No. No, no. It’s just, it’s a little big.
No, come on, you’re not an idiot. Look, just help me put it back up.
Oh, Amy, come on.
I came to say I’m sorry.
Oh, Amy, please.
I know.
You’re right. You’re absolutely right. I should have been honest with you and told you the gift was too much.
I don’t think you can put a number on how much one person likes another.
Amy, come on…
Three gr… Oh, my God! Look, look, Amy, all you need to know is, you are my friend and I don’t want to lose you out of my life.
Grab your hammer.
Okay, look, I didn’t want to say this, but the real reason I took the painting down was because it made Bernadette very jealous.
Yeah, th-th-th-that’s what it is, so…
Huh, I try.
Well where are we going?
Well, what about Bernadette?
How’s that?
Now?
Yeah, okay. That’s, uh, that’s good.
Mm.
Yeah, good call.
You’re talking about the painting, right?
You know, Sheldon, I used to cut my brother’s hair. I could do it for you.
So, if I move my horsey here, isn’t that checkmate and I win?
Well, is it or isn’t it?
Well, no, I mean, your king is trapped. He can’t go here because of my lighthouse, and he can’t go here because of my pointy-head guy.
So did I win or not?
Oh, hey. Sorry, Sheldon, I’ll move.
Okay, what just happened?
Uh, sweetie, are you all right?
Okay, I’m sorry, I don’t understand.
You know, Sh-Sheldon, sometimes it’s nice not knowing what’s coming. I mean, look at me and Leonard. We went out, we broke up, now we’re trying again. We don’t know what’s gonna happen.
If I were you, I’d be worried that a girl who’s never played chess in her life just kicked your ass.
Why did you get bongos?
Oh, Leonard, it’s three o’clock in the morning. I don’t care if Richard Feynman was a purple leprechaun who lived in my butt.
Where are you going?
All right, Sheldon, this craziness has gone on long enough. Please come home so I can cut your hair.
All right, honey, look, we’ve known each other for a long time now, right? I’ve taken you to Disneyland, I kicked a bully in the nuts for you, I sing you Soft Kitty when you’re sick, you’ve even saw me naked once.
It was a long story. Anyway, Sheldon, I promise I know what I’m doing. Please let me cut your hair.
Almost done.
Well, sorry, I don’t know any dirty jokes.
Okay, what do you think?
Ha, told you. Okay, I’m just gonna clean up your neck a little and then you are good to go.
Okay. Okay, yep, we’re all done now. It’s just, it’s good. Let me just take that away from you. Okay.
You are welcome. Yeah, I’m gonna have to move.
You don’t have to check with me. Do whatever you want.
Really, what were you hoping for?
Okay, I’m an actress. Ask me again.
Whu… the entire weekend? You mean I wouldn’t see you at all? But I ju… No, no, I knew what I was getting into. You can’t put a saddle on Leonard Hofstadter. Oh, my, is it getting hot in here? Ay, papi.
An acting choice.
Choo got a problem with that, papi?
Sorry, Stallion. Your weird friend Giraffe is here.
Gummy bears? Thank you.
Not a chance.
All right, sweetie, I’m not going to get involved in your relationship.
Yesterday. You made me look in your ear to see if there was a ladybug in it.
Yesterday. You made me look in your ear to see if there was a ladybug in it.
What’s that?
Amy, what’s wrong?
Well, I know he didn’t cheat on you, so what happened?
Who’s Armin the miniature horse breeder?
I would have thought at a miniature horse show.
Mm.
Sure, I get that. I mean, he’s your first boyfriend and all.
Yes. On purpose.
Well, sickly is the new sexy.
Mm. You know, Amy, sometimes when you’re in a relationship with someone you really care about, the sucky part is, it leaves you open to getting hurt.
That’s hilarious. No.
Oh, come on. They’re playing one across the hall, we should, too. Okay, we are gonna take turns bouncing a quarter off the table, and if it goes into this cup, the other person has to drink. Then you get to go again…
Wow. Yeah, b-beginner’s luck. So, now I will drink this entire cup of beer, and you will go again and we can… uh… all right. So, yeah, okay, now I’m gonna drink this entire cup and then I’m going to drink another one… Okay, seriously, stop. What the hell?
Whoa, whoa, give me a second to catch up here. Hold on.
Wars.
Star Wars. They get all cranky when you mix the two up.
There’s absolutely no difference.
All right. Let me give you a little girlfriend 101. Usually the first move out of the gate is you withhold sex, but that will work better after Sheldon hits puberty. So, I’d say give him the silent treatment.
Hmm.
All right, then we’re gonna have to go with an oldie but goodie, making a scene.
That’s why you’re lucky to have me. Back in Omaha, there are two different restaurants I’m not allowed into. Both Chili’s.
Yeah, you pick that bone. You pick that bone clean!
Ooh, burn!
Sheldon, she wanted to show you off to her family, and you stood her up, okay? Look at this adorable, smushy face. Smush, smush, smush, smush.
No, Sheldon hurt you.
Oh.
Sheldon, she doesn’t want your stupid…
And that’s how a girl makes a scene. I’m sorry, sweetie. You’re right. You deserve your weekend. Come on, Amy, let’s go.
I’ll let you hold my hair while I throw up.
Oh my God, I love this chicken.
Okay, you’re right, I eat your food a lot. How about this, you can raid my fridge any time you want.
He’s bringing me. Who are you bringing?
Hi, you guys got a minute?
Well, I was thinking about Sheldon’s little joke the other night about me eating all your food.
Anyway, I got a little residual cheque from my commercial and I thought, hey, how about I get the guys a little thankyou to pay them back. So, Sheldon, ta-da!
Uh, from Stuart at the comic-book store.
Yeah, it was fun, I walked in and two different guys got asthma attacks. Felt pretty good.
Ooh, am I about to get a rare Sheldon Cooper hug?
You’re welcome. Don’t worry, I didn’t forget about you. Leonard, I got you a label maker.
Mmm. And, I got you a transporter too!
Oh, that’s great. Let’s open it up and put him in there.
Why, they’re just toys?
C’mon can’t we just open one up and take a…
Yeah, yeah, my mom gave me the same lecture about my virginity. Gotta tell you, it was a lot more fun taking it out and playing with it.
That was weird.
I cannot believe you guys aren’t going to play with these.
I dunno. I just think it’s a waste. Relax. I’m just looking at the box.
What is your problem?
Leonard, I bought you this because I wanted you to have fun with it. I don’t want it to just sit in this box.
Yes.
What?
I didn’t break it. I, I guess Stuart sold it to me like this.
You know, I paid a lot for this. Let’s take it over there and show him.
What is the truth?
Mmm.
Hey.
It’s not Saturday night. Why are you doing your laundry?
Wow, are these Amy’s? Kind of trashy, good for her.
Ugh. Why are you washing Howard’s man panties?
Yeah, yeah, I know, he’s the wheelchair dude who invented time.
I don’t understand, why doesn’t Howard just introduce you to the guy?
Well…
I know what it means. And yes, you love correcting people and putting them down.
Come on, you do it to feel superior. I see that twinkle in your eye when someone says who instead of whom or thinks the moon is a planet.
See, there it is, there’s that twinkle.
What do you want me to tell you, Sheldon?
Fine, Howard is being mean to you for no reason.
So, I hear you and the lost boys are having a bachelor party tonight.
Why should I worry?
Oh, come on Leonard, it’s you. What’s going to happen? I mean, even if there was a stripper, all you’d do is avoid eye-contact and maybe offer to help her kid with his homework.
Really? What is the craziest thing you’ve ever done with a woman? And the time you and I had sex in the ocean does not count.
Well, have fun tonight.
Yeah, there is.
Yeah, we labeled them stop and go.
Okay, show’s over.
I don’t care. Ask her things like are you going to take Howard’s name? Not who’s going to sit on who?
Nice. You know, you should totally get BernadetteMaryAnnRostenkowskiWolowitz.com before someone snaps it up.
Oh, that’s cool.
Amy, remember when we went over things that would be helpful and things that wouldn’t?
Not.
Well, if that’s what you like, I’ll take you to the comic book store, the place is full of ’em.
Well, a little. You hear stuff.
Well, I was gonna, but I didn’t think it would go past the first date. Then, when it did, I thought for sure it wouldn’t go past you meeting his mother. Definitely not past the two of you sleeping together. I mean, the warning signs were there, this is really on you.
Please come out, Bernadette. Let’s talk through this.
Amy.
Hey.
Well, I don’t think she wants to talk to anyone right now.
Yeah, sure, I guess.
Oh, my God, Howard. That’s the most beautiful thing I’ve ever heard. And it came out of you.
Oh, what the hell.
What’s with the robe?
No, you’re not.
If you want to do something, you can help me fold this sheet.
Hey, you.
For the record, not your worst opening line.
B-Before I do it, if you’re a cop you have tell me, right?
Okay. What’s it supposed to… Oh, my God, this is so freaky!
Okay. Me, me, me. Ready? Leonard, I am your father.
Oh, Mm. Hey, you know how we’ve been taking things slow?
Well, I’ve been thinking, and maybe I’m ready to take things a little faster.
Mm-hmm.
You know, just-just one thing. Look, we’re in a really great place right now, and I don’t want to do anything that will make stuff all weird again.
Okay. Oh, and just a heads-up, mm, since the last time you saw me naked, I got a Cookie Monster tattoo. The acceptable responses when you see it are awesome or nothing.
Who says something like that right in the middle of sex?
Okay, well, they sure as hell don’t say that.
No, the heat of the moment is, ooh, yeah, just like that, not will you marry me?
Why, so you can crawl under the covers and go, hey, baby, want to go look for houses in neighbourhoods with good schools?
You can’t take something like that back. I mean, what are we even supposed to do now?
You’re kidding.
It’s not funny.
Hey.
Yeah.
Okay, you, too.
Yeah, I’ve been thinking about it, too.
You’re right. No.
Yep.
Yep.
No!
Amy, you look great.
It wasn’t a real proposal.
Good move telling Sheldon.
Hey, I know tons of people who got married in Vegas.
Yeah, I mean, not to the same people but…
Well, that’s easy. Anyone can go online and get ordained as a minister. I know a piercing parlour where, for a hundred bucks they’ll marry you and stick a wedding ring through any body part you want.
Okay, I’ll, I’ll go. Howard and Bernadette, I know you two planned on getting married in a big fancy wedding, but when you’re in love, it doesn’t matter where or how these things happen. It just matters that you have each other.
Problem?
Oh, grow up.
Well, he started it.
Did I miss it?
I can’t believe it. This whole time, a small part of me thought he was lying.
Hey, this is my natural hair colour. Now. So, does Sheldon have anything special planned for you tomorrow night?
That’s hot. You kids better use protection.
Just a couple of minutes. You’ve really never done this before?
Oh, my gosh, that’s awful. The other kids make fun of you?
Uh, I don’t know, it’s still kind of weird. We haven’t really recovered since he proposed to me in the middle of sex.
This is great. What’s the occasion?
That is so sweet.
Go Sports?
This is awesome. I love it!
Gosh, I worked my ass off today. This is exactly what I needed.
Ah, thank you!
Oh, come on. I just told you I had a hard day.
Great.
Sweetie, can I just be the girl tonight?
Thank you.
No, we don’t! Come on in!
Yeah, it’s fun, isn’t it?
All right, who’s ready for another beer?
Girls.
Okay, hold on…
That’s enough.
Raj.
Ooh, one gravy boat.
One inappropriate, yet I wish I thought of that gravy boat.
Ew, why?
What about me what?
Oh, well, you know, Leonard is great.
He’s a sweetie.
Yeah, sure, of course I love him.
Well, I do.
No, he’d just take it the wrong way.
It means he is special and smart and nice and…
No. Maybe. I don’t know.
That’s the thing, I’m not. I’m not unhappy at all. It’s just, I don’t know, I, I’ve been in love before, but it felt different. But maybe this is a new, better, boring kind of love. Do you ever feel that way about Howard?
Amy, you?
Oh, my God. Sheldon?
What are you doing in my bedroom?
How did you even get in, you weirdo?
What do you want, Sheldon?
Talk about what?
Sheldon.
Okay, go home, crazy man.
Okay, what did Amy tell you?
Okay, you listen to me. I think it’s really sweet you’re trying to protect your friend, but this is none of your business. Got it?
Of course not.
Worst bedtime story ever.
Okay, honey, I have a lot to figure out, and until I do, you are not to say a word to Leonard. Do you understand?
Get out.
What?
That is the last thing I want to do.
Get out.
What the hell is wrong with you? You told Sheldon? Do you know what a terrible position this puts me in?
Really?
Mmm.
Uh-huh.
Look, there’s something I need to tell you.
I don’t really know how to say this.
Okay. Here goes.
I didn’t know what else to do. He had those big, sad eyes.
He looked at me like this.
Look, it’s fine. We’re not getting married, okay? We’re keeping things, you know, homeostasis.
Ugh. Hey, Sheldon? Hi. This came for you today. It’s from your mom.
M-hmm.
Oh, boy, a whole dollar. Now, I can quit my paper route. So, what’s in it?
Aw, how cute. Is this like a diary?
Really, your potty training journal?
August 7, 8:42 a.m. This is humiliating. What was wrong with diapers?
Oh, disgusting.
Why do you need all this stuff?
Sorry!
Of course, it is, it’s been in the news. And it’s a very famous boson.
Yeah, that’s basically what I said.
You really think there’s some kind of scientific discovery in here?
Maybe I could do it.
A proof that algebraic topology can never have a non self-contradictory set of abelion groups. I’m just a blonde monkey to you, aren’t I?
Okay, for the final touch, this is an eyelash curler. You just place it on your lashes and squeeze it closed.
Who I hope for her sake is not Captain Hook, so… who are you calling?
What?
Maybe he didn’t notice.
No, you do not.
Oh, Amy, really? She is not going to come on to Sheldon.
Well, for starters, at some point, that face starts talking.
Amy, this is crazy. You have nothing to be suspicious about.
Can we go now?
What are you doing?
Come on, Amy. That is not gonna work.
There’s nothing to be brave about. Everything’s fine.
Okay, maybe she was flirting with him, but who cares? Look, I don’t even know where my relationship is with Leonard is right now.
Well, of course he’s desirable. I mean, he’s great. He’s smart, he’s sweet, and, ooh, in the bedroom, whew, let me tell you, he really tries.
Fine, it bothers me a little. No. You know what? This is stupid. It doesn’t bother me. Okay, it bothers me. But only because she wouldn’t stop laughing. Leonard is not that funny.
So, how was work today?
Oh! You’re kidding.
Wow. Anything else?
Oh, is that it?
Oh, it’s about time. I hated the old way. Hi. I’m Penny.
In a way. We’ve kind of been involved in a five-year experiment.
Well, a lot of people can’t. Uh, hey.
My limbic system wants to take your pants off.
You’re unbelievable.
How about boys versus girls?
Once again, unbelievable.
All right, round one. Here.
Okay. Ready, set, go.
Present! Yeah!
Oh, my God, we’re gonna kill them.
It’s a chocolate chip cookie.
Relax, we got time, this is so fun.
Soon.
All right, that’s enough.
Yep!
Excuse me, the word is polish. See? Small P.
Hey, Sheldon, you’re always full of fun little facts. Where did the expression got your ass handed to you come from?
I wonder if it’s from, like, ancient Rome where they’d actually chop somebody’s ass off and then go, here. You know, to appease Loseroneous, the god of losers.
All right, fine, pick another game. Amy and I will beat you at anything.
Oh, come on, what is that?
No, no, we’re not playing some dumb made-up game.
Why not?
Okay. Just for the record, I have never entered a wet T-shirt contest. I’ve won a few, but that’s just because I spill when I’m drunk, so…
I don’t think so.
Okay, glasses off. Find Waldo.
Yes, we win again.
37.
Mwah!
Mwah!
All right, standard state fair pie-eating contest rules are, no hands, first one to clean the pan wins.
I hope so.
It’s not getting any better. Ugh. It’s Leonard. He wants to go costume shopping later.
I do, it’s just he wants to go to that party at the comic book store. A lot of the guys that hang out there are kind of creepy.
I’m, I’m sorry, Amy. You were saying something about Howard’s foreskin?
Yeah, I’m gonna go. It’s just not my idea of a good time.
Well, yeah, he’s my boyfriend. Isn’t that, like, his job?
Letting him make me happy.
I guess I could probably try a little harder.
Yeah, that’s kind of a problem.
Not really clear on what he does.
Yeah, I’m not really clear on what that means.
Yeah, you’re really just making it worse.
Anybody home?
I just thought I’d stop by and say hello.
No, I know. It’s long overdue. So, what ya doing? Better not be building a robot girlfriend.
You’re kidding.
Ooh! What’s going on in here?
What, is it secret?
Oh. You might want to put a sign on it.
Ah. Danger. Sure, sure. Yeah. What’s, what’s that?
Wow. High-techie-techie. What’s this little box?
Ooh, low-techie-techie. So, what are you working on right now?
Yeah?
Sharp. Thanks to the machine we saw earlier.
Wow. That is amazing.
What do you mean? . Oh! Wow!
Hmm.
Sometimes I forget how smart you are.
Take off your clothes.
Yeah. You got a problem with that?
Really? Never?
Whoa! That’s heavy.
No. Why?
Whoa! That is very cool.
Getting a little less cool, Leonard.
There we go.
Oh, my God, you guys look adorable.
No, sexy cop. Slutty cop only came with a skirt and two badges.
I thought we said in the car, no accents?
Oh, I’ll get that.
No, no, it’s…
No, it’s not a big deal. Just taking a class at the Pasadena Community College.
It’s just one history class. Look, I didn’t finish college, so I thought I would give it a try.
No, I’m not embarrassed. I just didn’t want anyone to know because I haven’t told Leonard yet.
Because it’s me going back to school, and he’s gonna be all “you can do it,” and “how can I help?” and “I’m so proud of you.” Ugh!
Really? You can’t think of anyone weirder?
Spaghetti okay?
Yeah, I don’t think the water was really boiling.
Okay, listen, there’s something I need to tell you. I’ve been thinking about going back to school for a while now. So a couple months ago, I started taking a history class at the community college.
I don’t want you to make a big deal out of it.
You’re making it a big deal.
Anyway, that’s it. I just thought you should know.
It’s really good. We’ve been talking about the origins of slavery. Turn in my first paper tomorrow.
Hey hey hey, this is my paper. And my perspective is that slavery is bad. Oh, and my professor’s black, so I’m pretty sure that’s the right answer.
No, Leonard, this is my thing.
Thank you.
Thank you. Now behave yourself and eat your dinner. Maybe later, if you’re lucky, you get to sleep with a college girl.
Leonard. It’s eight a.m. It’s like the middle of the night.
Oh, wow, that’s so sweet. Hey, what’s this?
Elves? Come on, Leonard. It’s too early for Lord of the Rings.
Okay. An examination of the economic, cultural, and political roots of slavery in the Old South, 1619 to 1865. What the hell is this?
So let me get this straight. You just assumed my paper would be bad so you wrote one for me?
What?
You changed every word.
You are such an ass. This is exactly why I didn’t want to tell you I was taking a class in the first place.
Right, because me being in school is so important to you. That way, you wouldn’t have to be dating someone who’s only a waitress.
Do I? Listen to me. I need to do this on my own. If I fail, I fail. If I pass, I pass. Do you get it?
Yeah, well, next time don’t. Oh, and since you like stories so much, this is not The Shoemaker
Nope. I have no reason to… “B” mad at you. Minus.
That’s right. On my paper. Not yours, mine, you punk-ass elf.
Hmm, how about, gee, Penny, you’re smarter than I thought. You may be the one in school, but I’m the one who learned a lesson. I’m so stupid, Penny. Duh.
I don’t think he’ll be making that mistake again.
So, I know this goes without saying, but if either of you tell Leonard you helped me rewrite this paper, I will beat you both with a bag of oranges.
Now, ladies, we got a B-minus on this paper. I think if we put our heads together, on the next one we could get an A.
Believable? You saying I’m not smart?
That’s better.
Hey. Sorry this took so long. But you used to work here, you know how it is.
No, I’m a terrible waitress, remember?
Yeah, right.
I’ve seen her burp you.
Yeah, but I told you, I’m not good at my job. Bernadette, listen to me. He is never gonna leave.
Wow, excuse me.
Hey. What brings you in?
I had a feeling we’d have a talk like this sooner or later. Are you finally getting fuzz in weird places?
And for the record, bleugh. So what are you drinking?
You could have a Long Island Iced Tea.
It’s calmed the pants off me a couple of times.
Oh. So, the heart you got from the wizard giving you trouble?
Yeah, Amy told me what happened. Look, just apologize. It’ll warm her twaddle.
Honey, you can’t make people like each other.
You might want to pace yourself.
Far be it from me to criticize a man with a full pubis. Look, Sheldon, your problem is not Wil Wheaton, okay? Your problem is the way you treated Amy.
Come on, someone insulted your girlfriend and you just let him do it. I thought you Texas guys stood up for your womenfolk.
Sorry.
Welcome to Long Island, Tex.
Yeah, that she is. Here you go.
No, she won’t.
So, how was work today?
That sounds like fun.
Oh, good, I guessed right.
Oh, just this guy I met at school.
Relax. He’s just a friend. We’re doing an oral report together. He’s really nice.
Would you stop? Look, he just moved here from London, okay? He doesn’t really know anybody.
No. That’s not true. There’s French, there’s Italian. No, you’re right, it’s the best.
It didn’t come up.
What am I supposed to say?
Fine. Hanging with my boyfriend. Talk to you later. Happy?
Mm-hmm. Hmm.
Nothing.
Did your boyfriend make you type that?
Don’t be like that.
No, he’s not. We’re just friends. Look, is this gonna be a problem? Because he’s supposed to come over tomorrow to work.
If it makes you uncomfortable, I’ll switch partners, even though the thing’s due next week and everyone already has a partner and I’ll probably end up failing the class.
Hey, shouldn’t you be out with your gang, spray painting equations on the side of buildings?
I just can’t believe you don’t trust me.
Then why did you embarrass me in front of my friend, who, by the way, knew exactly who you were?
Your picture’s on my refrigerator.
What is your problem? Do you use up all your thinking at work and then have none left over for when you get home?
Leonard, why do you always do this? Listen to me, you’re the one I’m with. You know I love you, so will you please relax because you’re driving me crazy.
Yeah.
That’s exactly what we’re gonna do because you’re about to make me cry, and we both know if I start crying, you’re gonna start crying.
Yeah. So, how you doing?
Uh, no, they usually don’t have to go out and get more wax.
Hey, anybody want a drink?
I’m assuming these are some kind of horns they bought at Comic-Con?
Okay, maybe we should change the subject. Um, Amy, how are your lady parts? Still chilly down there?
You know, I remember the first time I got a bikini wax. My sister did it with melted Crayolas and duct tape. It’s a bad idea.
Damn.
Anyway, to this day, I still can’t see a box of crayons without crossing my legs.
Okay, Howard’s mother is in, like, every one of your wedding photos.
No, Leonard’s taking me to a physics lecture, and coffee’ll just keep me awake. Oh, I’ll get it.
Ow! Ow!
You idiot, what the hell do you have in there?!
Get away from me or I swear to God I will rip out what’s left of your pubes!
Thanks. Ah!
Gee, you think?
Guys, I think I need to go to the emergency room.
S’up?
Step one, worms.
Okay, right there, ew is one of the things you’re not gonna want to say in front of your father-in-law. It’s right up there with icky and get it away. Now pick one up.
You’re gonna have to do it when you’re fishing.
What are you waiting for?
Just pick up a worm and put him on this hook.
Hey, don’t name him. Just jab a hook in his face.
That’s great. Cheerleading, way to man things up.
Now, let’s assume, by some miracle, you actually catch a fish. You’re going to have to know how to gut it. So, what you’re going to do is you’re going to take your knife, slice him right up the belly. You want me to stop?
All right. Now, you don’t want to cut too deep into its guts, or the blood will just squirt all over your face. Oh, my God. What is with you guys?
What, never?
Great. Here you go. What you’re going to do is you’re going to stick your thumb down its throat, grab the guts and pull.
Oh, look, it’s a female. You can see all the eggs.
Okay, now holding sides of hearth in position, lower mantelpiece assembly onto top tabs.
You’re so butch.
Of course you did. Your hands are softer than veal.
Really? That’s how you’re gonna spend your Saturday night?
Oh, you poor thing. Is having a real-life girlfriend who has sex with you getting in the way of your board games?
See you, boys. We are going drinking.
Come on.
No!
Wow, you should come to girls’ night more often. And not just because if you weren’t here, this would be a can of Pabst.
Okay, wait, are we talking one-night stand or do we want to get him into a relationship?
Raj, you’re a great guy, you’re in a bar full of single women, let us help you.
Nines or tens?
Of course he is. Look, that girl just got dumped by her boyfriend. She’s angry, she’s drunk, and her favorite movie is Slumdog Millionaire. I mean.
So, how’d it go?
Ooh!
Oh, honey, it’s not you, it’s them.
Oh, come on, Raj, not even a little bit?
What?
What is happening?
You’re talking about Leonard.
Wait, what the hell’s going on with Leonard and Alex?
Fine. Ricardo and Tondelaya.
I’m gonna kill her.
We know what’s going on, Sheldon!
What? He’s loving it?
Oh, you seem extra happy.
Any particular reason why?
Mm-hmm. Anything else?
That’s great.
Hmm. Well, I’m glad you’re having such a great day.
Oh, and who’s that?
Oh, I just didn’t know if you meant me or Alex.
Because I know she hit on you and I know you liked it.
Don’t play dumb with me, Ricardo Shilly-Shally!
Oh, damn it, you are.
I don’t care about Alex. Fine, I care. Okay, I hate that bitch. But what really hurt is that you liked it so much. I mean, do I need to be worried?
Because, she is pretty and smart, and when you talk about work, she doesn’t have to go home and look up words in the dictionary to understand what you said.
No.
Yes, Leonard, I am insecure. Happy?
Why are you smiling?
Well, I do.
Good.
What’s that?
Can I tell you a secret?
Keep talking about Captain Kirk, and we’re all gonna stop.
What did you do?
So, hey, I was thinking about that stuff with Alex.
I can’t help it. But, look, I figured I could sit around and feel insecure, or I could do something about it. So I got a course catalogue at school and looked at some of the science classes.
No, it isn’t, they are extremely boring. I mean, how do you not kill yourself, like, every day? Anyway, I decided I don’t need to be a scientist, I could just look like one. So I bought these.
I know, right? Watch this. Molecules.
Where are we going?
Hi. Here are the make-up sponges you asked for.
Damn, you’ve got more makeup than I do. You’ve got better makeup than I do. Yeah, I’m borrowing this.
I feel like you guys just went to Comic-Con.
Is that better?
Well, then why are you going?
All right. Well, you guys have fun. I guess I’ll see you Sunday night.
Okay.
What was that for?
Oh, this is the best. You have booze with breakfast on a Tuesday, you got a problem. You do it on the weekend, you got brunch.
I know. The four of them work at a major university. They’re all super smart. How can they still be into something made for 12-year-olds?
Mmmm. Now I feel bad for picking on all those kids. Although, in my defence, if Danny Biffle didn’t want to eat a mouthful of dirt, he shouldn’t have shown up to school wearing a bow tie.
Uh-uh.
That is an amazing idea. Okay, how many of these have I had?
Hey, Stuart.
No, we were just wondering why the guys like this stuff so much, so we thought we’d give it a try.
Well then, what do you recommend?
As evidenced by your boyfriend and his fear of hamsters.
Ooh, Thor! He’s hot.
Hmm, okay, I’m done. How did you guys finish so fast?
Yeah, well, I have street smarts.
Mmm.
Stupid?
I don’t know how Leonard can get so caught up in this.
I know. A hammer so heavy that no one else can pick it up?
That makes even less sense, I mean…
Okay, hang on, what if Thor’s hand is on the hammer? I mean, if he’s touching it with his god magic, does that mean I could lift it?
Well, which is it?
Okay.
Wait, I thought we were reading.
Yes!
You said it’s a magic hammer.
If Harry Potter’s wand can make decisions, why can’t Thor’s hammer?
Oh, yeah? Then how does the sun come up every day?
Oh, great. Yes. And then you will see, I am not wrong, because if we were in outer space, then anyone could pick up the hammer because it would be floating around in a weightless environment. Yeah, that’s right, the slow reader used science. Suck on that.
Okay, hang on. If I go to a bar and pick up a guy, and he picks up a girl, and then we all leave together, did I pick up the girl?
Hey, are we talking about me or are we talking about Thor?
It’s hot when Sheldon talks dirty.
Yeah, if that’s your idea of what’s cool, you should get one.
Honey, if you want one, just get one.
I hate it when you make me sit through all the credits.
Yeah, but I don’t think that’s going to happen in a documentary about the Holocaust.
What is that?
Well, wait, if he’s unhappy,shouldn’t we talk to him?
What beverage do you make for that?
All right, I don’t understand. Why didn’t you just tell Kripke the truth?
That is what I write on the bathroom walls. For a whimsically inventive time, call Leonard Hofstadter.
Yeah. Sheldon, can I ask you a question?
You ever going to sleep with Amy?
Maybe you don’t, I do. What’s the deal?
All right, come on, be serious. Look, you guys have been going out a long time. She would clearly like to have a physical relationship with you, so what are you doing?
Then what’s the problem?
Okay. Hang on. Are you saying someday you and Amy might actually get physical?
Yeah, but you two make such a cute couple. Like Burt and Ernie. You guys even teach me stuff about words and numbers.
Wow. Where are you going to go?
Oh.
No, not at all. No, it’s, it’s great. It’s terrific. I, you know, I just can’t help feel bad about Sheldon. I mean, how’s he going to get by without you? Ernie.
Yeah, he does, but it’s not the same.
Um, well, um, all right. You, you know how in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Ron didn’t abandon Harry just because Harry started dating Ron’s sister?
Sorry. Spoiler alert. My point is, as much as I want to live with you, I can’t do it knowing how much Sheldon needs you.
Well, you know what they say, if it ain’t broke.
No. No, no, I do. I do. It’s just, I mean, it’s a really big step.
Well, um, I’m just a little thirsty.
I got nothing.
Yeah. Okay, all right, don’t freak out. You can make this work.
Oh, please let some of it be Xanax.
Hey. What’s going on?
Really? Interesting.
It’s like the happiness won’t ever leave the apartment.
Yes. That is a real thing. And it doesn’t mean you don’t care about each other, it just means things are moving at a pace you’re not comfortable with, and that’s fine.
Well, maybe he doesn’t know how to say it without hurting her feelings.
That is the worst, isn’t it?
What did I do?
Okay. Listen, the truth is I don’t want him living with me.
No, I don’t want to break his heart. I love him. This is just happening too fast.
Yeah, and I’ve seen those legs. You might want to get some Drano.
Well, you know how he is. He’s sensitive and emotional.
Well, I don’t know what else we can do but tell them the truth.
Yeah. And who knows how Amy will react.
Hey, Ames.
Sheldon, what did you say?
Oh, don’t get all huffy. You’re the one who decided to move in without even asking me if I was ready.
And since you love the truth so much, why don’t you tell Amy you don’t want to live with her instead of blaming it on me?
Come on, Amy, let’s go drink wine and talk about what jerks our boyfriends are.
Um…
You’ll never believe what happened to me at work today.
This old guy was choking on his food, and I saved his life.
No. I said, oh, my God, I think that old guy’s choking, and then one of the busboys Heimlich’ed him.
Yeah, that was the point of the story.
Um, I think so. Why?
Oh, right. Yeah, we can do something.
No, I’m into it, I’m into it. Just, there’s so much pressure to make the night special, and it never works out.
You know, sometimes I think I’ve made you so much cooler than you used to be, and then you go and do that.
This place is really beautiful.
Hey.
No problem. We just sat down.
Is everything okay?
Oh, son of a bitch.
Nothing. Nothing.
It’s just this guy I used to date.
Until he cheated on me with my friend Gretchen, who’s here with him now.
And it looks like she lost a lot of weight, damn it.
No, you’re totally right. She could be skinny ’cause she’s dying.
You know what, screw them. Our night is going to be way more special than theirs.
What? Oh, you got to be kidding me.
Get up.
Oh, I can’t believe he’s going to marry the girl he cheated on me with.
What, so I’m the wrong person? Maybe you want to be with Gretchen, too.
Yes, absolutely. Now they’re doing that phony link-arm-drink thingy. I totally taught him that.
We were; it’s just, it’s not fair, okay? They’re bad people. It’s not supposed to end happy for them, it’s supposed to end happy for me.
Yeah, yeah, I know.
Oh, come on, don’t make this about you.
Yeah, well, whatever, okay? I told you, Valentine’s Day sucks.
What?
Night.
Yeah, I know. I’m a total bitch.
Well, I am.
I don’t know. Maybe ’cause things are going so well between us lately and I’ve been really happy.
Obviously, I have some commitment issues.
As long as things keep going great between us, you’ll keep asking me to marry you, and eventually I’m gonna end up saying yes, and then we’re gonna be married forever, and the whole thing just freaks me out.
What, what do you mean? Are you breaking up with me?
Really?
Yeah, you got it.
Okay. You know what? This might be the wine talking, but I have a very important question to ask you.
Leonard Hofstadter?
Will you be my valentine?
Hello.
Yeah, I can’t tell you how many times I’ve been at a party where everyone’s talking about flags and I just couldn’t join in.
Uh, I’m sorry, can we just pause for a minute?
I just think it might look more natural if you talked to me instead of the camera, you know, like, like a real conversation. It’s something we work on in my acting class.
Yeah, let’s try it again, and maybe, this time, you could work on your body language a bit. You know, when you’re all hunched like that, you’re shutting the audience out, but when you’re relaxed and open, you’re inviting them in.
Let’s try open.
Um, well, I’m from Nebraska. So what can you tell me about the state flag?
Oh, hi. What’s up?
You need me to shut the door so you can do your knocking thing?
Okay. So, what do you need?
Really?
Aw, sweetie, you just made my day.
Hey, my acting class is putting on a play Friday night. I could put you and Amy on the guest list.
What?
Hey, I don’t want you to go any more.
You should go ’cause you want to go, not because you have to.
Okay. Do whatever you want.
Oh, for God’s sake, just come to the play.
I think you have a great capacity for devotion. You’ll be lonely when she passes on, won’t you? I understand what that is.
Are you kidding? You brought fancy wine and made fondue. I’ve slept with guys for less. It’s a joke. Based on real events.
Yeah, but you just have to remember, that ride is shorter than you think and they take a picture of you at the end, so make sure you got your clothes back on. It’s a joke. Based on real events.
So, blow off work, go on a weekday.
It’s more like how girls end up at a Best Western hotel with a 34-year-old guy named Luther.
I can laugh about it now.
I’m in.
Oh, yeah, right. Wait, what was your problem again?
Yeah, that’s a toughie.
I work at the Cheesecake Factory, I said bye.
You’re kidding, right? We’re not just gonna get drunk and go on rides?
All right, whatever. How does it work?
Guess it would be fun to be Cinderella.
Yeah.
Unless you want to be Cinderella.
I can explain. I played hooky with the girls, then we all went to Disneyland and got… What are you doing?
Ooh, it smells good.
Sheldon, aren’t you gonna spend a little time with Amy?
What is your point?
Really? You couldn’t just say that? You had to tell the scrotum story?
It was a nice change of pace not eating takeout around a coffee table.
Sure. Just, when you say dressed up, you mean nice clothes, right? Not, like, capes and tights and crap?
No.
What if I ask Sheldon, you just happen to be in the room?
Okay.
Hey, Sheldon.
No, we just want information.
We heard you read the letter from Howard’s father.
What did it say?
Why do you even care? Just tell us what it says.
Come on. Look, the letter was found in Bernadette’s closet. Doesn’t that count for something?
Yeah, obviously.
Yeah, and the hors d’oeuvres are delightful.
Aw.
Sure.
I know.
We were all thinking it, really. It was kind of the elephant in the room, so…
Yeah. And I said if it wasn’t epistemic, we might as well not do it.
It was a letter explaining that your dad wasn’t who he said he was. Eventually, his other life caught up to him, and the only way to keep you and your mom safe was to leave.
Hey, it’s still early. Why don’t we go back and have that party?
This turned out pretty well, huh?
Damn, I forgot to feed him. And that I had him.
Party’s over! Party’s over!
So tenured means a job for life?
You can’t get fired even if you’re bad at it?
Wow, sounds a lot like being a pretty waitress at the Cheesecake Factory.
She’d be proud, huh?
So, who do you have to schmooze to get this deal?
That’s great. That shows a lot of integrity.
Oh, good, you heard me.
Oh, not really. I was out shopping with Amy. She wanted me to help her find something for this memorial thing.
Oh, what a jerk.
Well, since Amy’s going, do you want me there? You know, to support you?
Okay. I’m just gonna tie my shoe while you think about that.
Oh, then you all can get tenure.
I’m here to support my man, just like you.
No.
Absolutely not. Help me out here, I can’t afford another demerit.
Well, hang on. Maybe the Chinese haven’t finished watching it yet.
Uh, Sheldon, there are two dumplings left. Do you want them?
As a rule, no.
Well, why don’t you make up your own ending?
I feel bad for whoever gets that phone call.
It’s six thirty in the morning.
It was cute.
What’s wrong with cute?
So you want me to stop calling your little tushy cute?
I liked it. I’m excited.
What do you want from me?
Oh, come on, don’t be like that.
I’m sorry I called it cute. Let’s watch another one.
Yeah, it was fun. Kind of reminded me of my high school. But instead of vampires, we had meth heads. But both came out at night and had messed up teeth.
Oh. Well, that’s like my high school, too. But instead of a curse, it was crabs.
Okay, help me out here. Why does he love this show so much?
Yippee, it’s backwards. I get it.
I don’t know. It’s just, he’s so passionate about so many different things. I just don’t get that way. Do you?
See? I wish I had some of that fire in my life. I mean, I want to care about things and get excited like you guys.
You think?
Ugh, that sounds like a lot of work.
So, I was thinking how excited you get about stuff like Buffy or science or which TV remote you and Sheldon should buy.
See, that’s the kind of passion I didn’t think I had. But then I realized I’m passionate about you.
No, I’m serious. Look, I’ve always had these plans. I was gonna be in movies and live this glamorous life, and anything less than that just wasn’t worth getting excited about.
Oh, obviously it’s gonna happen. Yeah, a psychic at a bachelorette party told me so. Anyway, what I meant was, I shouldn’t wait, you know? I’ve got you, I’ve got Sheldon, all these wonderful friends. My life is exciting right now.
It is, isn’t it?
Leonard, I had an epiphany, not a stroke.
Sheldon, you big weirdo, I want you to know that I love that you’re in my life.
Got it.
Eh, his giant head did most of the work.
Who’s Professor Proton?
Yes! Sorry, tell me about Professor Proton.
Aw, so cute when you use the word cool wrong. Like when kids say pasghetti.
Relax, Sheldon, he’s only a few minutes late.
Hello.
So, do you do a lot of appearances like this?
I think I know.
Okay, I didn’t know.
See, I’m not a scientist like them.
What’s that?
Shut up. You can do that? I mean, wouldn’t that solve the world’s energy crisis?
I’m sorry to hear about your troubles.
But if you don’t mind me asking, uh, the potato clock, how does it work? Is it a trick clock or a trick potato?
Arthur, are you okay?
Any chance we could plug it into the potato?
We’ll pack up your stuff and meet you at the hospital.
Vegas, here we come.
No.
I got a brand-new bikini, so drinks at the pool are on these.
I’m sorry, why old?
Guess who?
Oh, it’s not so bad. You lost money, you’re filled with shame and you got groped by a stranger. I mean, that’s Vegas, you nailed it.
Oh, don’t worry, sweetie. No one has.
Okay, who wants a drink?
Oh, this isn’t alcohol. It’s a magic potion that makes me like you.
I drink my potion.
You know what? Give me the dice, I want to roll.
Yeah, well I’m supposed to be in Vegas throwing up on a shrimp buffet. Now give it. All right, what do I need?
Fifteen’s the point, the point is fifteen. Give the little lady some room, here it is, coming out. Sixteen! Yes! Oh, please tell me we’re playing for money.
More potion, please.
Pretend he’s that TSA agent. Come on.
No, it’s not.
Ooh, I have an idea. Since it’s not happening any time soon, why don’t your character and your character do it in the game?
Okay, we just want to say, we feel really bad about…
So, then, during my afternoon shift, I spilled an entire tray of drinks on myself.
Not really. My shirt was soaking wet. I got, like, the biggest tip of my life.
I thought I said that to you.
Wow, Hawking. Good for you.
Well, how long?
Whoa. When would you leave?
Wow. Oh, okay, well, I’ll just come visit you.
On a ship? Aren’t they afraid Hawking will just roll overboard?
Oh, sure. Like when you send me to kill spiders in your bathtub. Wow. Okay. Four months.
Oh, sweetie, if you’re gonna screw things up, it’s gonna be while you’re here, not while you’re away. No. I mean, look, you have to go. It sounds like an amazing opportunity. And I’m just basing that on how much I didn’t understand what you said about it.
Okay. Good.
Sure.
Oh, I don’t know. Remember what happened when I took care of your goldfish?
Sheldon, sweetie, shut up.
Bernadette, sweetie, shut up.
You know, maybe she’d be more comfortable meeting a girl first.
What the hell?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it does, and here we are.
Well, I’m his girlfriend, of course I’m gonna support him.
Honey, this is a big deal for Leonard, okay? He gets to work with Stephen Hawking. Who, by the way, will not be on the boat. I checked it out.
Oh, my God, Sheldon the genius is jealous of Leonard.
Look, sweetie, this is a natural thing to feel, okay? But just because good things are happening to Leonard doesn’t take anything away from you. You know what? Let me tell you a little story. Once there was a girl who worked at the Cheesecake Factory, and she wasn’t very good at her job.
It wasn’t me. But she was also an actress, and we were both up for the same part in a toothpaste commercial. She got it. Look, I was so jealous. But instead of ripping out her fake blonde hair…
I, looked her in the eye, smiled and said, I’m happy for you. Because that’s what friends do.
Yeah.
Like this. I am so happy for you.
Cheers.
Raj, I’m so sorry.
Well, here we are.
I’m gonna miss you, too.
Okay, there’s no space in the white zone, so…
Did you bring enough inhalers?
And, uh, extra Dramamine? You remember what happened on It’s a Small World.
Okay.
Oh, Leonard.
I love you.
Raj, it’s Penny. Are you in there?
Hey. I’m just coming back from the airport. I wanted to see how you’re doing.
Can’t stay long. I left Sheldon in the car with the window cracked open. He’s gonna go through that activity book in, like, 30 seconds, so… Are you okay?
Oh. I’m so sorry.
Oh, Raj.
I know how you feel. I miss Leonard, too.
You will.
That’s just the booze talking.
You’re talking to me.
Oh, me, too.
That’s great. Do you want some wine?
What’s the matter?
Sweetie, did you have a bad dream?
Aw.
Good night.
You know what? That would make me feel better. Thank you.
No.
Why don’t you just admit you only want to play this game because you always play it with Leonard and you miss him?
Mmm.
Okay, I get it, I get it. You are an emotionless robot.
All right, let’s just get this stupid game over with.
Okay.
Why?
Really? Why?
So that means I lose, right? It’s over?
Okay, let’s take a break.
I wasn’t going to get alcohol. Gosh, I wonder what Leonard’s doing right now. I miss him so much.
I’m calling him.
Leonard?
Wow, it sounds like you’re having a good time.
Uh, okay, well, we were just calling you because we were missing you.
Leonard, Leonard? I cannot believe we were missing that jerk.
I can’t believe it. All this time I’ve been doing nothing but sit around and miss that guy. And you know what the worst part is?
No. Yeah. But you know what the second-worst part is? He does not miss me at all.
Really? That, that’s it? That’s comforting?
No. Come on, you’re supposed to say, of course he misses you, the only reason he’s partying is to cover up his pain.
This is ridiculous. Why am I upset just because he’s off having a good time?
Okay, that, that’s great. You can stop trying to make me feel better now.
He did?
Oh, that’s really sweet.
Well, now I miss him even more.
Thanks.
Come on. It’s still early. Let’s do something.
How about we just talk?
No. Come on, let’s talk about our lives. Tell me something about you I don’t know.
Okay, that, that’s a good start, but I was thinking maybe something a little more personal.
How about I go first?
Okay, look, here’s something people do not know about me. When I first moved out to L.A., I did a topless scene in a low-budget horror movie about a killer gorilla. Ugh! After I did it, I felt so ashamed. Thankfully, that thing never came out.
Oh, God.
Okay.
That’s your big revelation?
Okay, you know what? I give up. I’m going to bed.
What did I do?
I, I didn’t think it was a big deal.
Sheldon, you are right. I’m really sorry. I should’ve known better.
Thank you. How about a hug?
Come on.
Aaaaaaah!
Another? Great.
Well, there must be a hell of a storm somewhere.
You know, I will miss this.
I won’t.
Yeah, I didn’t stay for the detention, I’m not gonna read the report card.
Oh, my God. You weren’t supposed to be here till Sunday.
Oh, my gosh, why are we whispering?
Oh, that is so romantic.
Oh, I just cannot believe you’re here.
Ah.
Oh. Oh, that’s the pizza.
Thank you.
Hey.
Okay, here’s, uh, twenty-five. Keep the change.
Oh. Okay. Well, here’s, um, thirty something cents and a promise I won’t call your boss and tell him you reek of marijuana.
That’s nice.
Yeah, thanks, but I kind of feel like eating alone tonight, so…
Uh, yeah, it sounds fun, but no thanks. Have a good night!
No. No, no, no. You know what? The toilet’s been doing that. I called the building manager, so…
Well…
Yeah, no, no, no. You know what, Sheldon, it’s okay. You don’t have to go into the bathroom.
Oh. Well, you know, I, I’ve got two hands and a bit of a drinking problem.
Oh.
Um, what?
So? That’s my dinner from last night.
Okay. Look, honey, I promise there’s no one’s here. I‘ve had a long day. I just want to have a quiet dinner by myself.
What?
No.
What the hell?
Sheldon, you cannot just barge in here like that.
No, he doesn’t.
It was fine.
Ooh, now we’re talking.
Oh, hey, what are you doing here so early?
He’s still mad at Leonard, huh?
I don’t know what succubus is, but it has suck in it, so that can’t be good.
Hey, Sheldon.
Come on, don’t be like that. We had so much fun together the last couple of months.
Sheldon.
I’m so glad you guys are friends again.
Aw.
Fifty cents off Vagisil.
Me, too.
I love scavenger hunts. My friends and I had them all the time.
Oh, in ours we would just run around town looking for a store that would sell us beer.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. Why don’t you just admit you don’t want to be on a team with me.
Mm-hmm, yeah, you don’t think I’m smart enough. You think I’m gonna be a liability. Even though I totally just used the word liability correctly in a sentence. Yeah.
No, no. Let’s mix things up. I choose Sheldon, and we’re gonna kick your ass!
Thank you. Do you want to be on my team?
All right, hurry up and close the door so they can’t hear us. Would you stop pouting? So, you picked my name. Get over it.
No.
Well, there’s no right way, Sheldon. I already found a few pieces that fit.
Ooh, ooh, it’s the comic book store. All right, come on, that’s where we have to go.
But, it, it doesn’t matter. We know the answer, come on.
Okay, it’s not gonna say that.
It’s the comic book store, it’s the comic book store, it’s the comic book store.
Ugh, we’re the last ones here, hurry up.
People run in a marathon.
Riddle me this…
Hey, Princeton, look at that, Team Community College Night School is in the lead.
Aha. Okay, let’s see. To continue on your quest, leave no stone unturned. Ooh.
Oh. Okay. Sheldon, I, I’ve got to ask, how did you figure out that it was the geology lab?
Yes.
Wow. I can drink a beer underwater.
Shut up. I solved it.
Well, wait. Don’t you want to know how I figured it out?
Okay. Oh, it’s a bowling alley.
Let’s go.
Three bags, no one’s opened ’em. we’re the first ones here.
What? Why me?
Okay, the clue must be in the bag.
It’s just a bunch of pants.
You know, I’m surprised you want to copy my answers since I’m not even smart enough to be on your team.
What are you talking about?
Yeah, well, you should have quit ’cause I’m still gonna beat your ass.
Oh.
But wait. So does this one.
Sheldon’s spot. The coin is in your spot.
Well, where the hell’s the coin?
I don’t get it.
That is the stupidest thing I’ve ever heard.
Run.
Run to India.
Hi. I thought you went to the comic book store on Wednesdays.
Oh, good. Check it out, The Disappointing Child by Beverly Hofstadter.
Yeah. It’s on the recommended reading list for my psychology class.
Oh, cool. Are there pictures?
Oh, come on. Why? How bad could it be?
Not even the chapter on the breast-feeding crisis?
Oh, my God, you still go left.
Okay, I know you don’t want to talk about it, but can I just ask you one question about your mom’s book?
I just want to know why a five-year-old boy puts on his mom’s make-up and wears balloon boobies.
You were wearing her bra.
Okay, okay. But you know, as a student of psychology who got a check-plus on her first homework assignment, I think, sometimes, it’s good to open up about these things.
Well, why were you so angry?
Sweetie, I’m so sorry. I wish there was something I could do to make you feel better.
Really? Are you sure about that?
Yep. Hey, and maybe this time you don’t try and talk sports with the guys.
Oh, come on. Every time we’re about to hang out with my friends, you don’t want to. It’s like, It’s too loud, or the bathroom’s too dirty, or they put a chicken wing in my ear. I mean…
Hey, what’s going on with you?
All right, hang on. is this still about your mom’s book?
‘Cause if you’re still upset about that, we don’t have to go.
I’m so sorry. I never should have read that book. You know what? You want to just get dinner and watch the game here?
Okay.
Hi. All right, sweetie. You hang in there today.
Okay.
Oh, just a little treat. I know you’ve been feeling really bad about your mom lately.
And I wanted to make you feel better, so I planned something very special for you.
Bernadette told me everything. Now you don’t get the left or the right.
Awkward silence, Sheldon on his phone, no touching. Somebody’s having date night.
How do you not tear off his clothes and take him right here on this table?
You know, not a lot of people know this, but the monoamine oxidase enzyme was discovered by a woman, Mary Bernheim. That’s right, my phone is just as smart as you guys.
Sheldon, I don’t understand. I thought you said you were fine with it.
Yeah, and you can’t tell her what she can and cannot do.
That’s different. I’m not going to the mall with someone dressed like a dumb space bear.
Oh, no.
Why’d you get that? You hate lamb.
Okay, Sheldon, what happened between you and Amy?
Yeah.
Okay, fine, Sheldon. What is your side?
Nope, got to go with Amy on this one.
All right, don’t worry. I talked to Leonard. He is gonna sit the guys down and set them straight.
What are you working on?
Do you know what he’s doing?
Uh, Sheldon, you want to take a break? Your food’s ready.
Aw, what horrible thing are you trying to make up for?
Ah.
Yeah. Hey, how come you’ve never done anything romantic to celebrate our first date?
I can name tons.
Oh. I know, what about that bed-and-breakfast?
I know what I did. I bet they had to throw out that rocking chair. You know, I can be romantic if I want to.
Okay, just you wait and see. I’m gonna romance your freakin’ ass off.
Sheldon?
Thank you so much for coming.
Okay, good, ’cause I’ve been really struggling with this.
Pants, but Leonard says sex doesn’t count.
I don’t know if I want to cook for him. He’s kind of a picky eater. I mean, it’s too salty, it’s too dry, it’s too burnt and frozen at the same time. Okay, come on, what else would sweep you off your feet?
Okay, that’s just the plot for Dirty Dancing. What else would you love? Other than being lifted over Patrick Swayze’s head.
That’s from Say Anything.
I get that, but why is this so hard?
Yeah, I’m trying to be sad about that. I can’t.
Boy, Bernadette is gonna love this.
Okay, you know what’s not romantic? Rubbing it in someone’s face.
Damn it, everyone’s better at this than me.
What?
I discovered a secret ingredient. The flavour packet. That sucker is well named. All right, lover boy, get ready, ’cause there is a crap storm of romance coming your way.
Oh, I am. Maybe if you follow this trail, you’ll see why.
Yes. The most beautiful and shockingly expensive of all the flowers.
Okay, I gave this a lot of thought, and I finally found something to show you how much I love you.
It’s a first edition of Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy. I remember it was your favourite book growing up.
What?
No. Something’s going on. What’s wrong with it? I remember you saying how great it would be to have a first edition.
Oh, my God, I am the worst.
No, it’s not. I mean, what’s thoughtful is everything you do. Here, you know what? Look at this. Look, here’s the, the plane ticket you bought me when I was too poor to go home for the holidays. And the rose you left on my windshield just because. Here’s the, the thank-you letter you wrote me after the first time I slept with you. All 11 pages of it.
Of course I did. It’s you.
Oh.
Oh, yeah, just the first one. I didn’t save them all.
Good, I’m just having little trouble with the glue.
Yeah, but only because I was dating a second grader.
Yeah, I’m just making a mess.
When did I have pistachios?
Hey, guys, what do you think?
Thanks. Target, four ninety-nine. I’m getting a drink.
What’s going on with them?
Hey, guys.
Ooh, that looks like fun.
Oh, that’s amazing,
Raj, cool it, he’s gonna make us hair diamonds.
Hey, Arthur. How are you?
Sorry, they’re both married.
Mmm.
Hey, can I ask you a question?
You’ve had this dart board since I’ve known you, but I’ve never seen you play.
What window?
Ooh, what are you gonna get?
Aw, did she hate you?
No, if it was a spider, Lenny would’ve flipped out.
Yeah, it’s freaking me out. I’m gonna go.
Yeah, hang on, just give me sec.
I scraped gum off the bottom of that table. Only ’cause my manager saw me put it there.
I don’t know why but I always pictured her as Indian.
I’m gonna go talk to her.
I’m not gonna say anything. I just want to check her out. Because she hurt my friend. My Indian friend. Who’s racist now?
Yeah, well, you’re short.
Hey, can I start you off with something to drink?
Okay. Um, you’re Lucy, right? I’m a friend of Raj Koothrappali’s. Actually Amy recognized you.
Oh, you know, he’s good.
Yeah, this is none of my business. But why did you break up with him in an e-mail?
Yeah, I get that. I’ll go get you your water. When you say easier, you mean easier for you, right? ‘Cause it certainly didn’t make it easier for him.
I’m sorry, this is rude of me. I will go get that water. See, see, see, see. Just now you expressed your feelings to my face. How come you could do that with me, but not Raj?
You know what the worst part is? You’re sitting here, perfectly happy and he’s at home, a blubbering mess.
Well, I also said I was getting you water, but look at me still standing here. You know, I may be a bad waitress, but you are a bad person. Now, you want to hear the specials?
Hey, if you guys were hungry, why didn’t you order something at the restaurant?
Oh, that’s right. Nachos and a turkey club.
Well, I was too busy standing up for my friend to worry about your, I want to say salmon.
What do you mean how? What’s the big deal?
Okay, you guys are overreacting. Raj is gonna appreciate how I had his back.
What are you doing?
Sheldon’s not here. Why don’t you take the sweater off?
Which is?
Oh, my God! Is that sweater made of bees? Come on, take it off. I won’t tell.
Sweetie, every night you don’t kill him in his sleep, he wins.
Smile.
So you can send it to Princeton and get your money back.
There’s a girl at the Cheesecake Factory I can set you up with.
Yes, it is.
Oh, stop it. I’ve seen you eat, like, a million hamburgers.
Look, I’m telling you I’ve done it, okay? I clearly remember the cow standing up and then the cow on its side.
I was 16 in Nebraska. What do you think?
That would explain why the sky was also on its side.
Howard. Cow tipping. Real or not?
Uh, we were actually gonna do it here.
Yeah, me, too.
Sheldon, you can have a nice Thanksgiving anywhere. I spent one in Vegas.
Yeah, back when I was dating Zack. It was actually more fun than I thought. We gambled, we went to one of those cheesy wedding chapels, we had a really good turkey dinner. Which was surprising, since we were at a strip club.
Yeah.
We had one of those silly fake weddings.
No, they’re not.
No, they’re not.
But it didn’t seem real.
Ugh, would you stop? We just did it as a goof.
I will. Why are you making this such a big deal?
So how do I undo this?
Great, well, what do I have to do?
Want of understanding? What does that even mean?
Here. Thank you for having us.
I can’t believe I felt bad for opening this in the car.
Fine.
Are you done?
Look, I get it, I screwed up. Is this all we’re gonna talk about the rest of the day?
Ugh, I need some air.
Well, you’ll be happy to know I just spoke to Zack and he’s willing to sign the court papers. He’s on his way here now.
Yeah.
Because you wouldn’t shut up about it. When I called him, he had nothing to do, so I just thought it would…
Oh, sorry. We’ll keep it down.
Yeah, okay, great. Can we just get this over with?
Okay.
We don’t have any kids.
Okay, look, Zack, come on. You know neither of us thought this was real. I mean, we were married by an Elvis impersonator.
Hang on. You know what? You have been a jerk about this all day. You always do this, whenever I mess up, you’re right there to make me feel even worse about it.
Yeah, we could’ve waited till Monday, signed the papers, this all would have been over.
Oh, there you go again, just another mistake you’re throwing in my face.
I’m about to. Sign the paper.
Hey, I’m sorry about today. And I promise, next time I get married, it won’t be a joke. It’ll be for love. Or money.
How can you not be happy? You’re tall, thin and famous. Oh, my God, I’m jealous of Sheldon.
Mmm, you clearly haven’t been with me at Mardi Gras.
Hey, what’s with all the yelling?
Oh, that’s great. You must be thrilled,
He’s counting hobbits and superheroes, right?
Actually, I get what he’s saying.
It’s like if you’re dating someone you’re not that into, and then they break up with you and then you want them more than ever.
Bark once if you need me to call PETA.
You know, if it makes you feel any better…
You’re probably right.
Wow, you’re really good at this.
How you doing over there?
Hey, Sheldon, you want to play next?
Oh, she’s pregnant? That’s great. You’re gone an uncle. Uncle Sheldon.
Wow, so, how long will you be gone?
Yeah, which means we don’t have to use his ridiculous ornament-spacing template.
Ah.
Honey, I’m a little strapped for cash this year, so for Christmas I was thinking of giving you this.
Okay.
Yeah.
Hi.
Hey, how’s your sister?
Yeah, if he’s in the room when they’re making the baby, I’ll give you ten dollars.
Hey, you ever imagine what that would be like? Not being born?
Oh, you weren’t joking.
Okay, sweetie, let me tell you exactly how that would have gone down.
Hey, you guys ready to order or you need a few minutes?
A few minutes it is.
Yeah?
Really? You don’t sound so sure.
What’s that?
I think you’re too late.
Sure, why?
Why?
Hey. Did you remember to pay the rent?
Hey, he may be an idiot, but at least he didn’t pee himself.
Me, too.
Oh, come on. Childbirth is a natural, beautiful, uuurgh, it’s like someone sawed a cow in half.
We do?
Hey, Sheldon.
Doing laundry?
Oh, my inference is justified. Sheldon, you are so funny. Anyway, I need to do my laundry, too, because these clothes are so dirty. Almost as dirty as the dirty girl who’s wearing them.
Okay, that’s enough.
So, what do you think?
Please, Sheldon. I need you.
To take me.
Come on, Sheldon. You and me right here.
I think I know how to change your mind.
Great.
What do you mean, not exactly?
Amy, what about you? What do you think you’d be doing if you never met Sheldon?
Aw.
Who’s that?
You guys need anything else?
I’m sorry, I have a boyfriend. In fact, there he is now. Ready to go, sweetheart?
Guys, guys, you’re never gonna believe this.
I just got a part on a TV show.
Um, NC… II… or, you know, NCSTD… I don’t know, it’s, it’s, you know, it’s the one with the letters and I’m gonna be on it!
Yeah.
Um, I play a customer in a diner and I flirt with Mark Harmon.
Well, yeah. Why?
Hey, guys, don’t forget, my episode’s on TV tomorrow night.
Oh, that’s so sweet of you, but I was gonna steal food from here. You know, my treat.
We haven’t even gotten to my scene yet.
Okay, shh, guys, guys, this is it.
Are you kidding me?
Well, the diner scene. Where’s my diner scene?
No, there was supposed to be a big scene with me and Mark Harmon, but it’s gone.
They must’ve cut it.
This doesn’t make any sense. I mean, I, I thought I did a, a really good job, I… Excuse me.
Ugh, this is such a disaster. My parents had all my relatives over. They got one of those six-foot sandwiches, and got my brother a day pass out of rehab and now he’s missing and the sandwich is missing, and they’re probably in Mexico by now. So humiliating.
Yeah, but this was supposed to be my break, okay? People were gonna see me in this show and it was gonna lead to bigger things. More auditions, more parts. Now none of that’s gonna happen.
Unbelievable.
Then what did you mean?
I think you meant that you don’t believe in me.
I want you, right now, to give me your 100% honest opinion.
Do you think I have what it takes to really make it as an actress?
So you think I’ll be on TV and in movies and win awards.
Yes, honestly.
How could you say that?
Oh.
No, please. Don’t stop, go on. Tell me how I’m gonna be a waitress for the rest of my life.
Wow, thank you.
You didn’t get your part cut.
And you didn’t get your part cut. Yep, bunch of old guys rocking out in a band, all with erectile dysfunction, you didn’t get your part cut!
We can, but the part of Penny might get cut.
Thank you.
Are you serious? For what?
What? How did you manage that?
Come on Leonard, this is just a PR stunt.
Really, let it go.
Hey.
Look, I know you were just trying to help with your Star Wars thing. I didn’t mean to call it idiotic.
Oh. Sorry, I meant to. Anyway, um, I was just upset with myself. I wasn’t mad at you. I just feel like everything is falling apart.
No, it’s not okay. Look at me, okay? I took a temp job as a waitress forever ago, and I’m still doing it. I can’t quit, because guess what? I can’t do anything else. And I finally get my big break, and it goes away. I’m such a mess.
Really? ‘Cause this morning at Starbucks, a pair of old underwear fell out of my pant leg. And it wasn’t the only one in there.
No, it’s not, okay? I’ve been out here for, like, ten years. I’ve nothing to show for it.
You’re right. I do have you. Mm. Let’s get married.
Ooh. Leonard Hofstadter, will you marry me?
Did you seriously just say um?
Okay, so, so you don’t want to marry me?
No, forget it. I take it back. Offer’s off the table.
I’m gonna go.
No, no, I just need to be alone.
Hi.
Look, I’m sorry I didn’t text you back. I just needed some time to think.
Yeah. Come in.
Leonard…
Listen, I don’t want to break up with you.
Yeah, I probably wouldn’t.
Look, you did the right thing last night. I was a mess. I was just frustrated because my career is going nowhere.
Great, because I’ve been thinking, if I really want this acting thing to work, I need to focus all my energy on it. And to do that, I should quit waitressing at The Cheesecake Factory.
I know.
I already quit.
Oh. Hey, Sheldon.
You okay?
Why are you sitting in the stairwell?
Oh. Well, good boy.
Oh, I have a ton of errands to run. I need to make copies of my headshot, send them off to agents and sign up for a new acting class.
Okay. You want to come with me?
Come on, boy. Come on. Let’s go. Let’s go. Get in the car. Come on.
Hi. What’s up?
Actually, I’m at The Cheesecake Factory.
Yeah. I’m just returning my uniform.
I didn’t get it.
Do you think quitting my job was a mistake?
No. I’m serious.
Because Leonard just pissed me off. Am I being an idiot or not?
Really?
Thank you. I needed to hear that. Why can’t Leonard understand it?
Yeah, I need to start cracking the window when I leave you in the car.
And hold three, two, one. Very good. Now let’s try Warrior 2. And hold.
Yeah, well, I don’t think we’re gonna get to do that today.
And now we go to Reverse Warrior.
I’m helping him relax because, unlike you, he supports me.
Sheldon, take a break.
Okay, if you support me, what was with that phone call?
Oh, so now I need your permission? Would you have asked me before you quit your job?
Yeah, well, maybe we do.
Okay, wait. What are we doing?
Look, I know you think I’m being reckless, and you might be right, but I need to take this shot.
You keep saying you’re on my side, but you don’t act like it.
Well, it’s scary for me, too.
Okay. Thank you.
What’s going on?
Oh.
This is a whole lot of weird before coffee.
Yeah, this is not gonna be enough coffee.
To be cool? Yeah.
Oh, guys, this is really sad. And in a different way than it was twenty minutes ago.
What? You were all going as the Hulk?
And we’re back to the first kind of sad.
I can’t believe Leonard is spending hundreds of dollars on scalped tickets.
Yeah, but those tickets only get him into Comic-Con. That dress gets me into anywhere I want.
Yes, like a museum, but anything else.
Oh, all right, if we’re gonna be fancy, I should probably put on clean underwear.
No, we’re gonna stop at Target on the way.
I can’t believe we thought this would makes us feel grown up.
Well, there’s a bar in the lobby.
So, afternoon tea was a bust.
Let me ask you a question, when did you guys start feeling grown up? ‘Cause I am not sure I do.
Okay, so I’m an adult, and the other day I saw an old man slip and fall down, and I laughed. I mean, I laughed hard. Like, like, out loud. If he was conscious, he would’ve heard me.
I know. One of the tennis balls came off his walker and bounced right off his head. I mean, I, I almost wet myself. I guess you had to be there.
Okay, sex is not what makes you a grown-up.
Really? Is that how you talk to your mother?
I mean, really, what’s so great about being grown up?
I’m serious. Who wants to do all that stuff? Have insurance, pay mortgages, leave one of those little notes when you hit a parked car.
Oh, come on, it wasn’t me. Anyone could have knocked your mirror off, or whatever happened.
No, I think we’re just gonna have a quiet weekend at home.
That would really piss me off if I didn’t have a buzz going on.
You have Valentine’s plans? Which came out sounding way more surprised than I meant. Here, let me try that again. You have Valent… See? I can’t do it.
Yeah.
Hey, same goes for the two of you with Amy.
Happy Valentine’s Day.
Don’t be surprised if you find five chocolates missing and three gross coconut ones with a bite taken out. It came that way when I bought it.
Aw, jewellery. Oh, my God, Lakers tickets?
Aw. You are the best boyfriend ever.
Should we take this little party to the bedroom?
Oh, that’s true.
That is the least sexy thing anyone’s ever said to me.
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
No, Cinnamon ate the chocolates. That’s really bad for dogs.
We gotta get her to a vet right now.
Okay. There’s one not far from here. Come on. Let’s go.
A whole box.
So the point is I may have saved her life.
Uh, something like this. I don’t know. It came free with a full tank of gas.
Do you know how much gas is?
Sorry.
It wasn’t cheap. It was free.
Yeah, we weren’t even out of the room that long.
I think there’s something going on between the two of them.
Yeah, for future reference, that’s a while.
I don’t know. I’m kind of hungry.
Oh. Okay. Oh. Oh. Hey.
How is everything?
Oh, good.
Yeah. I’m sorry if you didn’t think we were taking it seriously. We love animals.
No.
Hi. Sorry I’m late, I was at an audition.
How about instead of assuming I failed, you ask me how it went?
Just shut up.
No, no, no, stay there. I’m fine on the floor.
Yeah, you guys never use that space up there. Why not get a table?
Translation?
Ooh, this one looks nice.
Why not?
Yeah. Well, Sheldon’s not here.
All right, sweetie, you’re paying for this table, and it’s your apartment, too.
No buts. You got to stop letting him boss you around.
See? Right there. You’re a grown man, you should be able to pick whichever hobbit you want. Wish you wouldn’t, but one problem at a time.
Really? This one?
Give it a chance, Sheldon, you might actually like it.
Well, you can’t say he didn’t give it a fair shot.
Come on, that is ridiculous.
That’s not what I’m saying.
Yes.
Me?
Are you gonna let him talk to me like this?
Okay, I have not tried to change Leonard. That’s just what happens in relationships. Look how much Amy’s changed you.
Oh, please. When I first met you, you were incapable of touching another human being. Now you’re holding hands, you’re going on dates, you even made out with her on a train.
Of course she told me, it’s the most interesting thing that’s ever happened to her in her entire life.
Or you’re the frog who’s been kissed by a princess and turned into a prince.
Oh, Sheldon, wait.
Yeah, mm-hmm. Amy, it’s Penny. Hey. Just a little heads-up. Leonard bought a dining room table. Yeah. Sheldon’s breaking up with you.
Well, I’m glad you’re still together.
You know, my aunt changed her diet, and in a few months, she…
Sheldon, Amy, will you please come join us?
Yeah, let’s go.
Forget it, Leonard. It’s over.
Aw, thank you.
Well, I’ll have you guys know I turned down a part in a movie last week.
Because it was crap. It’s a sequel to that awful killer gorilla movie I was in.
Okay, well, there are no shower scenes in this one. They just try to clone me from my corpse, but my DNA gets mixed with the ape’s DNA and I end up running around with giant gorilla hands and feet.
Well, I don’t think it’s the kind of part that’s good for my career.
Okay, I don’t think Meryl Streep ever had to say “Must keep gorilla hands from killing again!”
Oh, I’m sure he does it out of love. The same way my boyfriend makes me feel terrible about my life choices.
Oh, it’s no problem. Is everything okay?
Remember the old days when I would’ve said something dumb like why? Uh, that doesn’t sound good.
Yes.
Yeah, I know it’s on, Sheldon. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. I cannot afford this right now.
Oh, hi.
Not great. Can I talk to you for a sec?
I don’t know what to do. My car threw a rod and it’s totaled. I can’t afford a new one, I have no job, and now I can’t drive to auditions.
I did. I called them. The part’s gone. They gave it to someone else. Now that girl’s gonna get discovered and become famous and go on Letterman and talk about how she got her big break on a cheap monkey movie all because some dumb girl thought it was beneath her.
How? Unlike me, you have a job. I’m just gonna have to go back to being a waitress, like I will be for the rest of my life.
I’m sorry, is the fact that my life’s falling apart interfering with your board game?
Yeah. Why wouldn’t I want to get my old job back? It’ll be fun to see everyone. I haven’t talked to them since I said I quit, see you at the Oscars, bitches. Come on, let’s just get this over with.
I know. Thank you.
It’s just so humiliating.
Sweetie, I know you’re trying to make me feel better, and I love you for that, but it’s making me feel worse, and I kind of hate you. This isn’t your car.
I don’t understand.
I don’t know what to say.
Oh, my God.
I wouldn’t be so sure about that.
Sheldon didn’t heckle him?
Disgusting. Do not tell him.
Oh, my God, you guys need to do something!
Oh, my God.
Are you really gonna lie on the floor and pretend to be dead all night?
Are you gonna make us pretend to be a bunch of lame characters with silly accents?
You’re right, I’m sorry. Sounds like fun.
That kind of actress. This sucks.
Got it. Hey, who’s the murderer?
Sorry. Hey, who’s not the murderer?
Ooh, I’m gonna check the fridge, and see if there are any clues inside a beer.
Okay, can I ask you something? Why do you like making us do this stuff?
I’m gonna need another clue.
Well, my beer isn’t flat and my rack’s not saggy. So far, the future’s great.
Hey, I’m a famous actress living in London.
Hmm.
Of course not. If I became a famous actress and had to move, you would just come with me.
Yeah, but if I become a successful actress, we wouldn’t need the money.
So, wait, if my career took me somewhere else, you might not go?
Really? You think I’m putting this body through three kids?
Okay, if you do something cool in science, you might change the world. If I become a famous actress, I’m not gonna tell you why movie stars are the best. They just are.
In 20 years, who knows what’ll happen with any of us?
You do?
That’s so sweet.
Ah-da-da-da-da, let the dead man talk. So, why do you think that?
Aw, Stuart. Now I feel bad for murdering you.
Oh, come on, don’t pout. I’m sorry I ruined your game.
Definitely.
I love it.
Yeah, me, too.
Yup, we’re all in.
Hi.
I killed it. I was even able to cry real tears right on the spot.
I know. Next time I get pulled over for a speeding ticket, here come the waterworks.
What is this, my first day?
Yeah, sure.
I’m gonna go with monster. What do you got?
I’m liking my odds here.
No.
Oh. Why didn’t I put money on this? Hey, that’s my agent. If I got the part, it’s still the second best thing I’ve heard all day. Hello?
No, I didn’t get it.
I kind of did. The part in that awful horror movie I passed on came back around. Apparently, it’s mine if I want it.
I don’t know what to do.
Okay, it’s not me, right? This script is terrible.
Okay. Sometimes I feel like I can control the killer gorilla instinct inside of me, but then I see these bananas and I just want to eat them and then kill people. What am I gonna do?
No, come on. This is serious.
Less than I was making at The Cheesecake Factory.
She’s thinking of taking a job at The Cheesecake Factory.
Okay, look, here, page 58. I oil-wrestle an orang-utan in a bikini.
Both of us.
Okay, like what? Show me.
Oh, that’s sad.
Wow.
Huh?
Really?
Unless you’re sleeping with one of them, seeing other people isn’t a big deal.
No.
Come on, really?
Well, I’m having an impossible time getting my career off the ground, and I got offered a role in this crappy horror movie, and I just don’t know if I should take it.
I wouldn’t exactly call Star Trek embarrassing.
Me, either.
Yeah, beam me up. I love it.
That’s what I’m afraid of.
No. Did you figure out what you’re gonna do about the two girls?
Yes.
Great. Not like regret at all.
Hey, you’re up early.
I told you those Walking Dead pillowcases were a bad idea.
Is something bothering you?
Oh, come on, try me.
Okay. I get it. I mean, not all the jibberjabber in the middle, but I know what it’s like to put your heart and soul into something and get nothing out of it.
No.
No.
No. I’m saying you and string theory sound like a relationship, and I know what it’s like to be in one and realize it’s never gonna turn out the way you want.
I’m talking about other guys.
You have to have the courage to end the relationship. You know? Break it off, shake hands, walk away.
I know it’s hard, honey, but in the end, that’s how you grow.
So, how do you want me to cut it?
Or I don’t cut it and maybe just style it a little.
Can you keep him quiet? Maybe jangle some keys in front of him?
Oh, Leonard was telling me about dark matter, but I didn’t really understand it.
Okay, what do you think?
Doesn’t it?
I gave him a new look. It’s cute, huh?
Wait. What’s wrong with geology?
Like you could get a brown bear.
Who’s the duchess?
Sheldon, have you ever considered not rushing into something new? I mean, why don’t you take your time, enjoy your freedom? Maybe something new to study will find you.
Okay, how about we toast your newfound freedom?
And you wonder why other children beat you with books. Cheers!
So, we’re about to shoot this scene in the movie where the killer ape DNA is slowly taking over my body.
But I realize they’re gluing fur everywhere except my cleavage. So, I asked the director why and he says, it’s important to the story that my boobs be the last things to turn ape.
Oh, and there’s not even a bathroom on set. I have to go to the gas station across the street. I mean, I was dressed like half an ape and still not even close to the most disgusting person in there.
Sheldon, what did we say about being a nicer friend?
Leonard, what did we say about being a gullible weenie?
‘Cause you’re trying too hard. You need to do something else, get your mind off it.
Hey, that’s good. Why’d you guys stop doing that?
Yeah. Sounds like me. Come on, Sheldon. What do you say?
I don’t know. What do you want to do?
What can we do that’s free?
Are you kidding? That’s what you always do. Think harder.
Uh, tell me more about this calzone idea.
No. Bernadette’s working late.
Come on, anything can happen. We can push him down the stairs.
Yep.
What the hell? What? She’s not working late.
Why would they lie to us?
You’re not working late. Why did you lie to me?
I haven’t been complaining that much about the movie. Have I?
Well you know what? Maybe I need a break from all of you. Come on, Sheldon.
We’re gonna have Anything Can Happen Thursday, you’re gonna tell me all about your science stuff and I’m gonna complain about my movie, and we’re gonna support each other because that’s what friends do.
Shut up.
What’s wrong?
It’s fusion.
Think I’ve been complaining too much about the movie?
Thank you.
Hey, I don’t understand why you’re not upset with Amy.
Thank you. Hey, maybe the answer to your career question is in one of these.
Come on, open it. I bet it says something great.
Fine, I’ll go. Hmm. People turn to you for guidance and wisdom. Yeah, that’s a good one.
How is that not good?
Uh, since you’re paying for dinner, I’ll let that slide. Open yours.
Not with money. Read.
Oh, try again.
Oh, I think I see our next stop.
No, come on, tonight we are trying new things.
All right, Sheldon, just ask your question.
Oh, for God’s sake. Look, he’s a physicist who’s trying to figure out what his next field of study should be.
Okay, I can answer that one, I’ll be bored.
Oh, oh, here we go.
Yes, yes, your spirit guides are on fire.
Oh, he does. He so does. What should he do?
Sheldon, do you hear that? I mean, Amy is the key to your happiness.
Wow, you really struck a nerve. I’ve never heard him use the M word before.
What? That’s a real thing? What is it, Star Wars Christmas?
So, when is it?
Oh, no. This face wasn’t because I didn’t get it.
Hey, guys.
Okay.
No, thanks. Leonard and I are just going to the funeral.
Oh, I get it, like C3PO. What happened to me?
Sweetie, are you sure you don’t want to come with us to the funeral?
No, he blew up the Death Star. Why do I know this?
Oh, like Attack of the Clones. We are leaving right now.
I have a confession to make.
I’ve never been to a funeral before.
I just never knew anyone that died. I had a pet pig when I was a kid. I mean, when he died, we didn’t have a funeral, we had a barbecue.
I didn’t know him very well, but I still really liked him. It’s weird that he’s just gone.
I feel like I want to cry.
I can’t do it with you staring at me.
No, I’m dry. You’re a big crybaby, you start, I’ll join in.
Toy Story 3?
It was a gift. Thank you for being the emotional one in this relationship.
Yeah.
Well, I don’t want to be a jerk, but it was kind of a bummer.
You think about dying?
What would you regret?
You know Klingon.
No, I meant that as a regret.
What’s that?
Well, it just wasn’t the right time.
And this is also not the right time. Do not propose.
I know that face. That’s your propose face.
What’s two to one?
Oh, my. It’s not a contest.
Okay. Fine. Would you feel better if I propose so you could turn me down again?
Okay. Leonard, will you marry me?
No, don’t you dare. You reject me right now and tie things up.
This isn’t funny anymore. Just say no so we’re done with this. Will you marry me or not?
No.
You know what? Fine. Do whatever you want.
Thank you.
Yeah, he is pretty stupid.
Hi.
Uh, pretty good, actually.
Oh, no, it is, but I decided instead of complaining about it, I’m just gonna go in every day and give it my all.
Thanks. There’s no reason why I shouldn’t be the best bisexual go-go dancer slowly transforming into a killer gorilla anyone’s ever seen.
Go away. Just go away.
What gave you the right to mix my DNA with that of a killer gorilla?
Life? What life? Look at me, I’m a monster. And now I have blood on my hands, or paws. I don’t know.
I love you, too. But I’m afraid I love killing more. Like, one day, I might actually try and kill you.
Actually, you know what? Can we do one more? I think I could do it better.
Well, I care. I mean, look, if we’re gonna do this, why not try and make it something we’re actually proud of?
You can’t do that. He’s with me.
What? You can’t fire me. I’m the star. I’m the girl that goes bananas. It says so on the poster.
You know, the only thing worse than doing a movie where they glue monkey hair to your ass is getting fired from a movie where they glue monkey hair to your ass.
Yeah, well, it’s easy for you to say. You used to be famous.
All right, I’m sorry, you’re famous.
God, what am I doing with my life?
You were on set, you saw what it was like.
Oh, really?
It was over a bowling alley.
Are you done?
It was for haemorrhoid cream.
Leonard, you are really not cheering me up.
Hmm. You think you’re five-foot-six, that’s funny.
Oh, my God. What a day.
No. I need to start making some smart decisions.
With my life.
I don’t know. We could get married.
I am.
Well, yeah.
What? No, that’s not what I’m saying.
What does it matter? The point is, I’m choosing you.
Sweetie, you can be any pastry you want.
You know what? Forget it. I never should’ve brought it up.
Okay, it may look that way, but getting fired from that movie was the best thing that could have happened to me, okay? I finally realize I don’t need to be famous or have some big career to be happy.
You, you stupid Pop-Tart.
Really? You guess you’re in?
Okay. Leonard: Cool.
Yeah, I think so.
What’s wrong?
Yeah, it kind of does, huh?
Where did you get a ring?
Oh, my God, yes.
You’re right! Yay!
Shut up.
You want some wine?
I think Leonard’s mom’s okay with me.
Well, haven’t really talked about it yet, but I figure at some point, I’ll move in with him, or he’ll move in with me.
Not a chance.
No.
Okay, then, yeah.
No, keep your money.
This is so sweet. You never cook for me.
If you don’t like my cooking, why haven’t you ever said anything?
Sorry. I’ll get better.
Well, I’d like to pick one that works with my brother’s schedule.
Uh, 12 to 18 months from now, depending on good behaviour.
Well, Leonard cooked for me and now we’re just having a nice dinner, you know, as a newly engaged couple.
Amy, get out.
Oh, I’m sure he’s fine.
How?
You do that?
He can take care of himself. Look, we went over stranger danger and gave him that whistle.
What?
So? He loves trains.
It’s sweet how you look out for him. You’re a good guy.
We were worried about you.
And go where?
Leonard, hang on. Just come here. Maybe we need to let him go.
It might be good for him.
He’s a grown man.
Leonard, we can’t protect him forever.
He’ll be okay. You taught him well, Padawan.
Seriously, let him go.
Be safe and call us.
Mm.
I really think this is gonna be for the best.
Hi. Want to do yoga with me?
Hey, what’s going on?
Oh.
Is he okay?
Oh.
I can’t, I have that job interview.
Besides, I don’t need six hours of your hair is different, why did you change your hair? I’m holding my breath until your hair grows back.
Nope.
I haven’t been on a job interview in years. I’m really nervous.
I don’t have any experience in sales. Unless you count the bikini car wash I did in high school. But you already made me take that off my résumé.
They do?
Oh, I really appreciate this. I just hope I’m not in over my head.
I wish I felt more confident.
Oh, thank you, but maybe I should cancel.
But I don’t know anything about pharmaceuticals.
They’re comfortable.
Well, I’m a people person. People like me. Some of my favourite people are people. I feel like I’m saying people a lot. People, people, people. Okay, I’m done.
People. Yes.
Uh, well, as a waitress, sales was a big part of my job. I mean, believe me, I convinced a lot of very large customers, who should not be eating cheesecake, to have more cheesecake. I mean, one of those chubsters even had an insulin pump.
People.
Um, any chance his car needs to be washed by a girl in a bikini? No. Okay, I’m really sorry for wasting your time.
Okay, thanks. Um, I’m sorry, listen, could you do me a favour and not tell Bernadette how badly I blew this interview? She’ll get upset. And honestly I’m a, a little terrified of her.
Yeah, kind of.
I know, but she’s kind of a bully.
Me, too.
What happened?
Oh, my God, no.
Hey, look who’s back.
I thought your phone got stolen.
I cannot believe you travelled the entire country and never left the train station.
Next Monday.
Uh, not yet, but I will.
I said I’ll get to it.
Well, the first few weeks will be all training. They’ll tell me everything I need to know.
Okay, so what, you want me to be like a teacher’s pet?
Hey. Ready to go to lunch?
What happens if you don’t?
Uh, no. Actually, I didn’t invite her.
Well, ever since she helped me get this job, she won’t stop bugging me.
That is not true.
I told you, they’ll be right out.
Well, you saw her the other night. Am I wrong?
I’m sorry. I just need a little break from her.
So, what are you saying?
What?
Uh, thanks, but I think I’m gonna stay in and go over the stuff Bernadette gave me.
No, I think she was just trying to help. Plus, I really want to do well at this job. So…
Headaches, dizziness and nausea.
Those are also the side effects of having a 75-year-old man with an erection climb on top of you.
Uh, no. I can keep going.
Okay, good. She seemed like she really wanted to go out tonight.
Hi. What’s going on?
Okay, this is not what I meant when I said go outside and play.
For what?
What, you? Really?
That’s so cool. Congratulations. I guess that makes you the athlete of the group.
I know. Watching your boyfriend run around with a broomstick between his legs isn’t something you forget.
Hey, how was dinner?
You guys are going out two nights in a row?
That’s so hot.
Aw.
Sheldon, I’m surprised you’d choose to go to a pub.
Isn’t this when he says bazooka or something?
Yeah, and actually, I drink Sauvignon Blanc.
Relax.
So what? Why do you even care?
Uh, we’re not sure. But I want to wait long enough to prove to my mother I’m not pregnant.
A hundred.
Well, a relationship is more complicated than a French fry.
Oh, what did those rascals do now?
Well, kind of takes the romance out of relationships.
No, don’t.
Just don’t take it.
‘Cause it’s stupid. Who cares what number it is?
I said I don’t want you to. I’m getting another drink.
No, stop being stupid.
Look, I don’t need a score on a test to make me worry about something I’m already worried about.
That we’re engaged and have nothing in common, and it scares me.
It does?
Well, that’s not good. You being blindly infatuated with me was the rock we were building this relationship on.
Hey, sorry about that.
Let’s just take the test.
Oh, well, ’cause you know we’re gonna do bad.
Leonard.
Look at you, talking sports.
Can he really throw a ball?
Yeah, that’s a no.
Hi.
Hey, I hear you’re a dermatologist.
Oh, it would be great to practice on a real doctor.
I don’t know. I kind of got the sense she didn’t like me.
Of course not. No one ever says they don’t like you straight to your face.
It’s just this vibe I got.
Yeah. You’re probably right. I used to think my high school P.E. teacher didn’t like me, but it turned out, she liked me a little too much.
Yeah. It was fine. We went to a Melissa Etheridge concert, I got an A, it all worked out.
Yeah, I hope you’re right.
Yeah.
Hey.
Thank you so much for letting me practice my sales pitch on you. I really appreciate it.
Um, I brought coffee. I wasn’t sure what you like, so I got a regular, a cappuccino and a Chai tea. Since you like Raj, I thought you might be into that.
Oh, yeah, sure. Let me just get out my materials. Leonard gave me this briefcase. He used to carry it around in high school. You can still see the dent where they whacked him with it. Okay, I would like to talk to you about our new birth control pill, Femevra.
So, Femevra’s triphasic design provides balanced hormonal exposure.
It has also been shown to cause significantly fewer side effects than other oral contraceptives. Although it can cause acne, which, if you ask me, kind of increases its effectiveness as a contraceptive.
Okay, I’m sorry. Did we get off on the wrong foot? Because since the other night, I kind of feel like you might have a problem with me.
Are you sure, because it doesn’t seem fine?
Oh, my God. Tell me, what did I do?
What? Oh, why would he say that?
Well, I wouldn’t exactly call it a hook-up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No. Yeah.
You told Emily we hooked up?
Why would you say that?
We weren’t lovers. Come on. Everyone knows we didn’t sleep together. We got drunk and fooled around. Why couldn’t you just leave me out of it?
Yes.
Well, good job. Now she hates me. Ugh.
I don’t know what Emily’s so upset about anyway. Even if I had slept with him, so what? Everyone has a past.
Almost everyone has a past.
It’s not.
How? You can’t force someone to like you.
No, that won’t work.
What?
It’s stupid.
Oh, my God. I didn’t used to like you.
What’s up?
Why are you asking me?
Oh. Well, would you consider mounds of credit card debt kind of a big deal financially?
Huh.
Hi.
Oh, thank you for coming.
No, no. No need to apologise.
Okay, sit down. Listen, Emily, what happened between me and Raj was a long time ago.
Yeah, and Leonard and I are engaged now, and I’m just hoping we can put this whole thing behind us.
Oh, that’s so sweet. I mean, look at you, you are gorgeous.
Yeah, me, too.
Oh, we would love that.
Okay, good night, guys.
Bye.
Hey.
Want to go to Vegas this weekend?
Bernadette? Girl’s weekend. Vegas. You in?
Yes. I’ll check flights.
So, where should we go first?
Nah.
No.
Oh. Okay.
No.
Well, we’re in Vegas. I want to go downstairs, get a bucket of margaritas, dance until I vomit all over a roulette wheel and watch it go everywhere.
Oh, you will. That’s why they give you the bucket. Uh-oh.
It’s my boss. They moved my field ride up to Monday.
It means instead of having a week to study, I only have two days.
Uh, it’s kind of a lot. You know, let me do a little tonight, and I’ll catch up with you guys later.
Yeah, it’s okay. Go ahead.
Yeah.
You guys look like you’re having fun.
That’s a dollar.
That sounds so great. But I have a little more studying to do.
All right, guys, look, I would love to go out, but I’ve got to get this done, okay? So have fun at the club. And if you get in trouble, find a policeman. And if he’s taking off his pants, he is not a real policeman.
To the walk-in closet? Sure.
Yep. Shake that thing.
Good morning. You want to go to the pool? Come on, you said it yourself, only nerds and losers stay in the room. Wow, it’s bright out. Isn’t it bright? I should probably close these curtains. Nah. Bye.
Oh, thanks. Got a couple new outfits for work.
Yeah. It’s all very professional.
Okay, good.
Wait, hang on, you guys are gonna work in a mine?
You had a panic attack when we went through the car wash.
I’m sorry, I was thinking about work.
Yeah, that’s when I started thinking about work. Uh, listen, I’ve got some good news.
This is for you.
Well, you know how they gave me the company car? Didn’t make sense to have two, so I sold the other one.
Yeah. And there’s your money back, and now we’re even. How great is that?
What?
Oh, come on, Leonard, I know the car was a thoughtful gesture and I really appreciate it, but it doesn’t make sense to have both.
What should I have done? Taken a picture of us in the car and put it in a pink frame with puffy paint around it that says best fiancé ever?
Well, good, because that’s what I did.
Well, it’s not that sweet, I paid for the frame with your money and then got a massage.
Why?
And I really appreciate it, but now I don’t need it, so here you go.
Sweetie, I can buy my own stuff. I have a good job now.
Okay, I don’t want this to turn into a fight.
Great. Thank you. Can you pass the salt, please?
Hi. Sure.
Oh, sweetie, just forget about it.
Well, leaving an envelope full of cash on my dresser after sex would count as weird.
Mm.
You know what, that’s great. I love that.
You two want to be alone?
Oh, thank you so much. It feels so good to hear you say that. And I want you to know that I get this job kind of changes the balance in our relationship, and I’m trying to be sensitive to that.
Well, I just think that maybe you’re a little hung up on the money because I’m less reliant on you now, and that’s a little scary.
Control issues?
Or, maybe now that I’m no longer an out-of-work actress who can’t pay for her own dinner, that makes you a little insecure.
You know what? I’m sorry. It’s stupid to fight over money.
Ugh, You’re right, who cares? Mm. Get that money out of my back pocket or I will break your fingers.
Well, you know, now that we’re engaged, we had some questions about how you handle money as a couple.
Well, do you guys ever fight over money?
I see it.
Oh, don’t apologize.
It really bothers him?
Uh-oh.
Well, if I do well in sales, I could end up making a lot more money than you.
Maybe it’s a good thing we came here. It’s like a lesson in what not to do.
It won’t. Let’s just promise to figure this kind of stuff out before we get married.
Hang on. I want to see if he gets the star.
Okay, this is definitely the most fun thing we can do with the money.
Same as all of us, getting out of a car without underwear.
Okay, if it’s sometimes Howie wears yours, Leonard already told us.
Why would you say that?
I think the message is check out the rack on that scientist.
Okay, what’s the big deal? Look, if it helps me make a sale with a physician, I don’t think it hurts to flirt a little. I mean, laugh at their joke, touch their arm, maybe crank up the AC in the car beforehand, you know, to wake up the girls.
No, I think you should do whatever you want. You know, maybe if fashion magazines had female scientists in them, I would’ve become a theoretical physicist. Stop smirking at each other.
Hi.
Dr. Lorvis, what are you doing here?
Really? Why?
Oh, this is very embarrassing. Dr. Lorvis, I am so sorry. I did not mean to lead you on.
Oh. That’s why you were mumbling Mississippi.
Please, yes.
What? No, no, I just put it on the other hand and turn it around. Keep that hand in my pocket.
Well, what do you mean why? Look, I make more sales if these doctors think I’m single. I did the same kind of thing as a waitress. The real question is, what is he doing in your apartment?
You were okay with that?
Okay, he just showed up at my door. Don’t you think that’s a little weird?
Okay. Whatever, look, my company does not allow me to socialize with doctors outside of work. You got to get rid of him.
I can’t do it, he’s my best client.
Dr. Lorvis?
So, you just left them alone playing games in your house?
Doc, you’ve got to see what you’re doing is, is a little creepy.
Okay, you can’t just go chasing after every girl who’s nice to you.
Okay, so how do they unstick it?
Okay. Nope. That’s it. We are gonna go over there right now, and you are going to let them out.
Move it.
Just walk.
Leonard, are you okay?
Okay, Leonard, let’s go.
Yeah.
Hey.
Oh, great. I don’t suppose you also brought napkins, clean bowls, utensils and a roll of toilet paper.
Ah, You guys are the best.
Well, with all the new stuff I bought for work, I needed to make room in my closet.
That, believe it or not, is my prom dress.
What kind of teenager did you think I was?
The word is popular.
Aw, that’s sad.
Doesn’t matter. Prom is silly anyways.
No. I just made out with him a little while his date was puking.
Okay, guys, trust me, as someone who’s been to, like, seven proms, it is never as good as you want it to be.
Yeah, let’s see. Uh, four Under the Seas, two Enchanted Evenings, and one Night to Remember that I cannot remember for the life of me.
Okay, okay.
Well, who cares what I think? What do you think?
Ugh, thanks a lot.
Well, now I can’t blow this thing off without being a bitch.
You knocked more than usual.
Okay, what’s up?
Great, how?
Okay, just one question. What?
Here’s a question, as an alien pretending to be human, are you planning to engage in any post-prom mating rituals with Amy?
Not always. Unless your date drives a van with an air mattress, then always.
You’re kidding.
Thank you, so do you.
Sheldon, doesn’t Amy look hot? That’s got to put some starch in the upper flermin.
Oh, it’s beautiful.
Aw, I know I wasn’t into this before, but I’m so glad I get to take you to your first prom.
Well, who’d you go with?
Aw.
Well, if I would have been there and saw you alone, I would’ve asked you to dance.
Well, you don’t know that.
What, that already happened?
Well, you wouldn’t have asked me either.
Well, I might not have asked you to dance then, but I will ask you now.
I don’t care. We’ll make our own music.
Thank you for wearing your heels.
Want to take a picture of us and send it to your old friends in the chess club?
I know, me, too. But it will be fun to have a prom without all the drama.
Hi.
Yeah, I watched. It was like the scary boat tunnel in Willy Wonka.
Yeah, back off, he’s all mine.
Okay. And Sheldon really believes we’re at a public swimming pool?
We had a really nice swim.
‘Cause I’m a liar, liar?
You had to tell him?
He’s still in surgery.
He’s gonna be all right. That is sticky.
I think she meant something a little happier.
Oh, it’s nice you got him that.
Okay, listen, when Leonard comes out, he is not gonna feel great, so, please don’t give him a hard time.
Okay, the reason he deceived you is you were being a pain in the ass.
Really? You won’t even say A?
Obviously, I care about Leonard. I’m gonna spend the rest of my life with him.
Sheldon, it was just a little tremor.
Come on, smile. This is gonna be my Christmas card.
Yeah, ’cause you sound really funny.
Who are you kidding? You were so panicked Leonard was gonna die, you’ll never leave him.
Yeah, once he figures out how to work a door.
Okay, that’s morbid. Send it back.
Hey, why did you get two? I’m with stupid.
Oh, Dan. My boss who didn’t want to hire me and now’s a little hug machine.
Aw.
I’ll be right there. Bernadette’s just parking the car.
Come on. She’s not that bad.
I know she can be a little intense, but, I swear, she is so sweet once you get past all the…
Oh. We were just talking about how much we love working with you. Isn’t that right? Dan?
So, Dan, you have a grandson. How old is he?
I heard he was being picked on by a mean kid.
Oh, I don’t know. Maybe he didn’t like the fact that you called his grandson a wuss.
Okay, look, I know what a good person you are, but sometimes people think you might come off a little harsh.
Yes, but once in a while, people think you’re a little mean.
No. No, no, no. I think the cookie thing.
No. That’s fine, but there’s a difference between being tough and telling your friend her new pants look like a saggy diaper.
Yeah, you did. I felt so self-conscious, I had to return them.
You’re doing it again.
Oh, come on, they don’t hate you, all right? They’re just a little intimidated. All you need to do is show everyone how sweet you really are.
No, come on. You are not going anywhere, all right? I am here for you, and we are gonna fix this together.
Even though your dress is ugly.
What?
Yeah. It comes from the swear jar we put money in when you curse.
Uh, well, you know your private bathroom?
That was supposed to be for the whole floor.
Well, then, maybe you shouldn’t have named her Wheelchair Kathy.
Because this company needs you.
See? You don’t have to be mean to get what you want.
Hey, how are things going with your parents?
You know what? That was almost on topic. I’m gonna say good job, Sheldon.
Me, too.
So, Dr. Koothrappali, long flight?
Oh, that’s rough.
Oh, great. Everything’s good.
Yes, we did.
You’re just gonna leave him here?
So, if you don’t mind me asking, do you think you might start dating again?
No, but if things don’t work out with me and Leonard, I’ll give you a call. Wait. How much do you talk about Star Trek?
Like what?
Sorry. She’s taken, too.
Certainly doesn’t feel like it, does it?
Oh, I guess that’s where Raj gets it from.
Hey, you know, Raj is dating a doctor who works a lot. Him and his mom have a type. You, you got to laugh at that, right? No? All right.
It’s kind of boring. Although it did get exciting for a minute when Amy inhaled a wool ball. How much longer do you think you’ll be?
Honey, it’s Christmas Eve. Who even knows you’re in there?
So erase them and walk out.
Oh, Sheldon, we didn’t bring any.
Of course it is.
Hi. Ready to go?
Sweetie, you really thought I’d want to do this?
Well, did you tell him that?
Did you say it out loud with words?
I don’t want to spend the whole day playing a board game.
No. We’re always doing what you guys want. Just once, it’d be nice if you did something we wanted.
Yeah, we do game nights and video game nights and we watch movies with director’s commentary.
Yeah, today Amy and I are deciding what we’re all gonna do.
Thank you.
All right, let’s see. What’s something fun the guys would never take us to do? Oh, I know, we could go horseback riding.
All right, well, what do you want to do?
Well, that’s Wilshire’s problem. Come on, you know, there, there’s got to be something fun we could do that the guys will hate.
Three words, Doctor Who convention.
You walked out of the house in a fez and bow tie. I went so you didn’t get beat up.
You were, but somehow I held myself back.
Is there any part of your body that’s normal?
How come we can’t think of something we both want to do?
All right, keep thinking.
It does, somehow he managed to take all the fun out of it.
No, you’re right, we should do what you do. Have our mom send us pants from the Walmart in Houston.
Bye.
Uh, not really a great outfit for work, unless something opens up in the hookers and whores division. Hey, can I ask you something?
Do I really force you to do things you don’t want to?
How is it okay?
Well, you know, that was a long time ago. You’re a different woman now. You’re smart, you’ve got great friends, you’ve got a boyfriend, you’re pretty, you have zero fashion sense, but, anyway, tonight we’re gonna do whatever you want.
Absolutely. You name it, we’re doing it.
Well, you named it.
How are you guys getting along? What? Why are there tears?
Sheldon, we know this is a sensitive subject, and Leonard’s not gonna move out until you’re ready.
Don’t tell Amy that. We’ll be here every Sunday.
I know. I’m really proud of Sheldon.
Uh, Bernadette’s nickname for you is the virgin piña colada.
Yeah, once I was too lazy to walk across the hall, so I used your toothbrush.
So what do you need the headphones for?
Is that why you had to take him to Office Depot last night?
Yeah, have fun.
And you thought it was soaping me up in the shower.
I love him, but if he’s broken, let’s not get a new one.
Ugh, what?
Oh, I’m just doing this awful workout. I hate it.
I don’t know, I guess I like that I hate it. It makes me work harder.
The exercise, Sheldon. Shouldn’t you be getting ready for work?
Uh, you’re sad about not getting anything done last night, so you’re gonna sit around and pout about it?
So, whichever rep has the best sales for the quarter gets a trip for two to Hawaii.
Yeah, clearly you haven’t seen him on the beach walking around with his metal detector.
Really? Want to go to Hawaii?
Come in.
What’s up?
What exactly do you think goes on here?
Sheldon, we are just people. We talk about the same things you guys talk about.
Let’s just talk about our periods.
Say the quote again.
Wow, this is hard. I’m gonna say Cinnamon.
Yes.
Date night.
Okay.
Now, you just get comfortable.
Yeah, you get some sleep.
You’re right, we can’t.
Mmmm.
So, tell me about your day, how’s it going with the particle detector?
Yeah, I listen to what you say. You’re building a particle detector using superfluid helium.
And you know from past experience this table cannot support both our weight. So, how’s the detector going?
Kind of like Sheldon’s ant farm.
No, I do. I didn’t write superfluid helium on this napkin for nothing.
Hey, if you’re pausing for dramatic effect, I’d keep it moving.
Okay, well, if you find him, use the kitchen island, that coffee table will not support both of you.
Oh, God. Probably nothing. I think I saw the director twirling a sign outside the Verizon store.
What, no, why?
It would be humiliating.
Fine, but I’m telling you, it’s terrible.
No.
Okay, we’ve seen plenty.
Okay, well, I’ve been poking around the internet, and I think I found something we’ll enjoy watching even more.
Oh, just a video of Bernadette in a beauty pageant.
You look like a talking cupcake.
How could you not tell us you were in beauty pageants?
It is; it truly is.
No.
Okay. We are reading that right now.
Why? Is it about you and Sheldon?
Oh, my God, it’s about her and Sheldon.
Please show us?
You know I’m gonna read it either way.
Amelia and the time-trav… found it. It was just past dawn on the prairie, and like every morning, Amelia prepared to do her chores. Except something about this morning felt different.
Maybe it was the first whisper of winter in the air, or maybe it was the unconscious handsome man with porcelain skin and curious clothing she was about to discover lying in the field. A man who would open her mind to new possibilities and her body to new feelings.
“Time travel? I don’t understand,” said Amelia. Cooper stared at her. ‘Which word don’t you understand, time or travel?”
It stung Amelia when he spoke to her this way. In her little one-room schoolhouse, she was always the smartest student, regularly besting the boys in her class, but this was no boy in front of her, this was a man.
Cooper told Amelia about all the strange and incredible things the future would hold, like computers and living past 30. He asked her if she had any questions. All she longed to ask was if his heart was beating as fast as hers, but she was too afraid to hear the answer.
So instead she asked if, in the future, Montana ever became a state.
With a heavy heart, Amelia stood before the newly repaired time machine. She regretted giving Cooper the part he needed.
What? No, I really want to know what happens, and Bernadette really, really, really wants to know what happens.
No, it is. Does he stay? Do they kiss? Does she find out about Montana?
Yes.
Get out!
You want me to stop reading?
As he stood for Amelia to dry him…
Hey.
You okay?
What’s going on?
Did she leave pit stains in your favourite crop top, too?
Oh, that sounds like a good thing.
I’m sorry I didn’t have a camera.
Well, I’m sure she didn’t upset you on purpose. Besides, aren’t you the one who says there’s nothing more important than the advancement of science?
All right, well, if I’m understanding this right, and all she did was help out another scientist, I’m thinking you might have to let this one go.
I don’t know what to tell you. I mean, why don’t you talk to her?
Well, you could shove them somewhere.
No.
I don’t know, just think about something else.
Sure.
You know, some people try visualization.
Okay, imagine your problems are a pen.
Now imagine you’re holding that pen.
Now open your hand and let it go.
Sheldon, this isn’t that hard.
How?
What? She didn’t give me any puzzles.
Son of a bitch.
I can’t believe you were testing me against a chimp.
Why would she even do this?
Make this interesting? You bet money on me?
It’s not interesting. It’s incredibly insulting.
Oh, my, that’s it. Get out.
Get out.
What?
Oh, hey. Did you see that? I, I figured out how to open the door all by myself. Maybe I’ll fling some faeces around my cage to celebrate.
I know you’ve been giving me secret puzzle tests.
Open the door now.
Pull up your pants.
I don’t want five dollars. I want my dignity.
I know, it’s so insulting. At one point, they had me figure out how to get a banana out of a puzzle box.
Unbelievable.
Really? You couldn’t get it out?
Eh, what’s the matter with them is they think they’re so smart they don’t care if they hurt other people’s feelings.
The answer’s in this puzzle box. Let’s see if you can open it.
I really thought he was gonna say let it go.
How’s Howard holding up?
Whenever I saw her, she’d say I was too skinny and try and feed me.
Don’t take this away from me.
Honey, neither of us comes off good in that story.
Raj, would you ever try an experiment like that with Emily?
Oh, careful. You’re poking at the whole foundation of The Bachelor.
What? You’re okay with an experiment where you have to answer awkward questions about your innermost feelings?
Please, can I do it with him? Please?
I’m not gonna fall in love with Sheldon.
You know what? I can honestly say if we fall in love, not only will I drive you there, I will buy you all the dragon T-shirts you want.
Yup. Be right there. I assume you don’t want wine.
What heavy machinery? Let’s just start.
Question one. Given the choice of anyone in the world, whom would you want as a dinner guest?
Just says anyone in the world. I guess that means living.
You sure that’s your choice? ‘Cause I’ve had that dinner.
Robert Downey, Jr.
Uh, well, I’d probably sleep in, do a little yoga, then lie on the beach while cute cabana boys brought me drinks and probably get a massage and then cap off the night with some dancing.
Yeah, why?
He’s there.
Yeah, well, he brought a book, okay? What’s yours?
Interesting, you didn’t mention Amy.
Well, not to steal from the Bible, but turning water into wine sounds pretty good.
Come on, I’m just having some fun with you.
Fine. Honestly, if I could have one quality, I wish I could be as smart as you guys.
Sheldon.
Well, I can’t read people’s minds. Actually, that’s not true, I can read men’s minds, but only ’cause it’s usually the one thing.
You’re all alike.
Really? You always seem so confident.
Well, now I wish I had the ability to make that stuff easier for you.
Wow, I just felt this wave of affection for you.
And the wave is gone.
If you were to die this evening with no opportunity to communicate with anyone, what would you most regret not having told someone?
Today’s your birthday?
Well, that’s always been a secret. Not even Amy knows.
So, why did you finally tell me?
Well, thank you for sharing it with me. I won’t tell anyone.
That is so funny. I never would have pegged you for a Pisces.
All that’s left to do is stare into each other’s eyes for four minutes without talking.
You ready?
And begin. This is kind of creepy.
Sorry.
Do you want to stop? I know you have trouble with eye contact.
Aw, sweetie, I’m comfortable around you, too.
I meant more like a little brother.
It’s getting creepy again.
Just thinking about the day I met you and Leonard.
Can you believe it’s been eight years?
I can’t remember a time you guys weren’t in my life.
That’s it. That wasn’t so bad.
Well, maybe. But I’m still glad we did it. I do feel closer to you.
Like what?
I just want to make sure you get there safe.
It really has.
Again, it was miniature golf.
You can’t be this proud.
Because I beat you.
Hi.
Okay.
This is why I’ve been saying we should keep champagne on ice.
Yes.
Mm-hmm.
Aw, is this your first time?
Well, why?
You went to the dirty store without me?
Well, get it. Get it for me.
Yeah.
Okay, did you go to the dirty store or Michaels?
Whoa, that’s kind of a big step for a guy who only recently agreed to take his socks off.
No. No, come on, I want to do it.
Yeah, let’s you, me, and your very, very pale feet make some art. Hey, when you got back to this store, I want to go with you.
So what do you think?
I’m not even sure why we were out of breath. Uh, I mean, did we move at all?
Okay, come on. We are not old boring people. We can do better than this.
Almost 1am.
Yeah, is it a comedy? Is it a drama? Nobody knows. Now, come on. We are gonna do this.
How did you get paint in your eye?
We sure did.
Sweetie, I beat you at this, too.
What? Are you kidding? We’re not hanging it.
And our butts. Not hanging it.
Yeah. We could give it to Sheldon, and tell him William Shatner painted it.
I mean, who even reads Scientific American?
If it’s such a big deal, how come the biggest celebrity they could get for the cover is a molecule?
I’m sorry. What can I do?
No, no. I’m gonna cheer you up. Here we go.
I am taking you shopping.
My baby is sad, and I’m gonna make him happy again.
Well, what about this helicopter you control with an iPad?
It does have a camera in it.
You know, for an extra four bucks, I can have this thing here tomorrow.
You know what? I did it. What’s four bucks?
Well, didn’t he do a lot of the work?
And that’s why you get an iPad helicopter.
I know, I know.
Wow, it looks really pretty in here.
All right, hey, you two, we’re here for Howard right now, okay?
This food is amazing.
Oh, so it’s like The View.
Shut up.
Wait, who’s Tor?
Okay, new salon topic. Salons, dumb thing from a long time ago or interesting thing made dumb by talking about superheroes? Discuss.
Guys.
Guys, if I wanted to hear people be bitchy, I’d go to my real salon.
I don’t think I’ve eaten that much in my entire life.
Shut up.
You know, when they chase you out of there, you only have to run faster than Sheldon.
PRK?
You still worried some Berkeley girl is gonna steal him away?
Sure. Oh, we had one of these growing up. I used to play all the time.
Oh, I meant beer pong.
So when do you guys think you’re gonna move in?
Bernadette, for every episode of Doctor Who Leonard has made me sit through, I will play on your behalf and send that TARDIS back to Gallifrey, where I hate that I know it belongs.
Yeah, it’s also like when the Mountain fought the Red Viper in Game of Thrones.
No, no, I like that show. It’s got dragons and people doing it.
Sorry, he’s really good.
Wow.
Hey.
I care. Oh, wait, no, I don’t. Good luck, Raj.
Whoa.
It’s in your purse. Play.
Oh, it’s cool, I’ve never been on a podcast before.
Those are Star Trek people.
I only figured that out because I’ve never heard of any of them.
Sorry.
Yeah, so, how many people listen?
What? A few thousand people listen to you talk about nerd stuff?
I think I started to suspect it was a bad movie when I looked at the script and saw the title, Serial Ape-ist 2: Monkey See, Monkey Kill.
Okay, well, I’ll apologize for the first time, but the other nine are on you.
Really?
Hey, Kevin. It’s really exciting to talk to you.
Oh, wow. I wish it was better.
Aw.
Seriously?
Oh, my, I would love that.
Well, maybe I can do both.
I don’t think I asked you.
What is the harm if I audition?
I don’t know, I make a movie, become rich and famous, win an Oscar, a Golden Globe and live an incredibly wonderful life.
Thanks a lot.
Okay, instead of protecting me, why don’t you try being excited when something good happens?
Decent? I make twice what you make.
Yeah.
Well, how much do you owe? Maybe I can help you out.
In a safe place.
No, it means a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds. I’m not overly conservative. I’m young, so my guy said I can afford to take some risks.
Don’t you have a guy?
Oh, sweetie, you should really get some money.
Leonard, why are you making such a big deal out of this? So our roles have changed a bit over the last couple years. This is the way life is. And I’m sure in time they’ll change again.
Okay, look, would it make you feel better if I did something dumb like sneak out of work one day to go audition for a Kevin Smith movie?
Sheldon. Sheldon. Sheldon.
Yeah, I kind of want to do it again.
Uh, no, I actually came to talk to you.
No, no. It’s about my acting career.
Well.
Okay, look, here’s the thing. I like pharmaceutical sales, it’s going great, but I have an audition for a movie, and if I get it, it could screw everything up.
Well, why?
You’re really not gonna tell me?
Okay. Sheldon, let me ask you a question.
If I was at a train station and one train could take me to my current job and the other train could take me to an audition for a movie, which train should I get on?
No.
Oh. You’re right. I’m worried about something that hasn’t even happened yet. Huh. You are a wise man.
Oh, I guess you’re right. Maybe it is the person who asks.
I’m sorry. What was I thinking?
‘Cause I already know what he’ll say. Wah, wah, wah, you shouldn’t do it.
Oh, hey.
Yeah, uh, I got a job as a pharmaceutical sales rep.
Well, kind of. But now I get to act like inflamed heart is only a mild side effect.
Yeah, it’s going okay, but I do miss this sometimes.
Mmm.
Yeah. I started that rumour.
I mean, the whole experience reminded me about how much I hated about that world. You, you know, the anxiety, the depression, the negativity. I don’t want to feel those things. I want to sell drugs to people who feel those things.
I did. I mean, I walked in, read for the part, then stunk up the place, but then I walked right out.
I do, and you know, I don’t think I’ve ever thanked you properly for helping me get it.
Well, thank you. You’re a good friend, and you changed my life.
Sure.
Okay.
All right.
I, uh, huh.
Uh, yeah, I just need to throw in a few last minute things, you know, makeup, underwear, clothes.
Oh, I pack light. Once, I got through an entire spring break with nothing but a long T-shirt and a belt.
It’s called an evening look. I’ve never been to New Jersey before.
So it’s not really like that?
You think we’ll have time to visit your mom over there?
What?
Well, can we get on another airline?
So, that’s it? We’re not going?
Well, that sucks.
Oh. You could tell it to me.
Are you sure? I could pretend I’m a high school cheerleader who can’t control herself around esteemed alumni.
Ooh.
Hi.
I got you a little something to cheer you up.
Just open it.
Because you are giving your commencement speech.
I called your old high school and convinced them to let you give your speech over Skype.
Yeah, now about those, uh, they came from a costume shop, and all they had left was sexy graduate, so they might be a little short.
Yeah.
What’s taking so long?
Just let me see. Sweetie, you know you’re supposed to wear clothes underneath a graduation gown.
Oh. Well, you do.
Yeah. You’re gonna be on Skype, they’re not gonna see your legs.
Add a belt and I’ll take you some place nice.
Oh. Hello. I, I didn’t know he was gonna point it at me, so, don’t do drugs and stay in school.
Okay, bye.
I’ll, I’ll tell you later.
Oh, sweetie, it was the best speech I…
Leonard, what time does your mom’s plane get in?
Don’t you want to know for sure?
Aw, it’s so nice. She’s gonna love it.
You know, your mom’s never been too thrilled with our relationship. Maybe I should get her something so she warms up to me.
Really? It didn’t work for you.
Hey, sorry, got caught up at work. Hi, Beverly.
Sorry, I forgot.
Oh, yes. Hi, Mary.
Ah, yeah, now that’s what I’m talking about.
Oh, yeah, let me show you the ring.
Really doesn’t matter to me how much he spent on the ring. I think.
We’re not in a rush. We’ll set a date when the time is right.
Hey, look at that. You both believe in Jewish bearded guys.
Mm-hmm.
Why don’t we all stop hitting ourselves and talk about something safe, you know, like shoes or how cute little Chinese babies are.
Yeah, and you certainly don’t have to earn my love.
Of course, you already knew that when you bought me this princess-cut drill bit.
I know, I know. Zzzzzzzz.
Well, come on now, she did kind of start it.
Yeah, me, too.
It’s okay, go ahead.
Oh, my God.
Well, now we know, next time we go to the farmers’ market, the order is petting zoo first, then buy vegetables.
Oh, your buddy got mugged by some baby farm animals.
Mmm. So what do you need help with?
Okay. Were you talking before she got upset?
That’s probably it. What’d you say to her?
And that made her angry?
Well, Sheldon, when you’re kissing a girl, she expects the attention to be on her.
Yeah. I’m tapping out. Leonard?
Wait, what is wrong with you two? He was talking about television during their date night.
Okay, see, that’s even dumber than you wondering if being bitten by a goat would give you the powers of a goat.
Thanks for cooking.
That carrot was delicious.
Still haven’t heard from her?
Hey, I don’t think she’s wrong about you going too slow in the relationship.
Yeah, you’ve been going out for years. You haven’t even slept together.
Uh, hello.
No. Sheldon, we’re getting married.
Well, we will. We’re just not in a rush.
Yeah, it’s just, things are good right now.
I’m focusing on my job.
So busy.
Yeah.
You know, I can see why Amy’s mad at you.
You know why.
Not in a rush, busy with work…
Really good.
Oh, my God. Yes. Why would you even ask that?
Well, you want a date, pick a date.
Okay, indoor it is. Big or small?
I doubt it.
All right, well, I want it in a church.
Fine. I want to release butterflies.
Sounds perfect.
Stay out of it.
No, it’s okay.
Uh, Sheldon, I think we’re good for now.
Here we go again. Why is everyone so concerned with us setting a date? We’re committed to each other. We’re happy. A ceremony isn’t gonna change anything.
Ew, 50? We’ll be old and gross.
Um, I’m free tonight.
Vegas isn’t that far away.
Oh, thank you.
Wow, there’s a Denny’s in Vegas you can actually get married in.
Yeah, but we could get heart-shaped pancakes.
Yeah. This is crazy.
Maybe. But this isn’t about them, it’s about us.
And you know what the best part is? We took our time. I mean, we met, we were friends for a couple years, then we got together, and then we got untogether, then we worked out all our problems, and now we know everything about each other, we can just go forward with no surprises and no regrets.
And no regrets.
What?
What?
Yeah.
No, you told me.
What did you do?
And then what?
All right.
Nope, never.
You know, can I ask you a question?
Why are you telling me this now?
Really? Because to me, it seems like we’re about to get married and you’re trying to sabotage it.
No, I don’t want there to be secrets between us.
Uh, keep your mouth off other women.
Okay.
Look, I’m not happy this happened, but I think I can get past it. I mean, we weren’t engaged at the time, and it was just kissing.
Just kissing.
Okay, that’s enough. Stop talking.
Yes.
Yes.
Ha-ha, don’t push it.
So, what package are you thinking?
Why would we want that?
Whatever. Put us on the Internet. I’ve always wanted a wedding with a comment section.
No. No, I want to. Look, we’ve put this off long enough. Let’s do it.
What’s going on?
She did?
Uh, actually I’m in Vegas. Leonard and I are about to get married.
Well, it was kind of a spur-of-the-moment thing.
Amy, don’t be like that.
Okay, will you relax? You’re not missing anything special.
She’s upset. Look, it’s gonna be a great wedding. Look at you in your little suit.
Okay.
Thanks, but I don’t like glitter on my scrambled eggs.
Me, too.
Yes.
Oh, my God, would you stop bringing it up?
What if they call our names?
Oh, and the fairy tale continues.
Really, we’re good.
Yeah.
I know.
I love you, too.
No, thank you.
No. You wrote vows?
Well, I don’t have any. You’re kind of making me look bad.
No, no, no, go ahead. I’ll come up with something mushy, you’ll cry, we got this.
Wow.
Right. Um, okay. Leonard, I mean, you’re not only the love of my life. I mean, you’re my best friend, and, you’ve got a friend in me. You got troubles. I got ’em, too. There isn’t anything I wouldn’t do for you. We stick together, and we can see it through, ’cause you’ve got a friend in me.
He loves that movie.
We did it.
Can you?
Okay, let’s do it. You gonna make it?
Nicely done.
Well, the night is still young.
Yeah. I guess.
It’s just, when we were kissing, I couldn’t help but picture you with that other girl.
You’re right. Just forget it.
Did you feel guilty?
Did you feel guilty after kissing her?
What do you mean, every time you see her?
You still see her?
You work with her? How could you not tell me that?
Oh, okay. So you’re saying this is my fault?
I thought I was okay, but it turns out I’m not.
What’s this?
Oh. That’s so sweet of you.
I’m sorry to hear about you and Amy.
You know, it’s bad enough what happened, but then he tried to hide the fact that he sees her all the time at the university.
Some girl named Mandy.
Yeah.
That’s great.
That’s ridiculous.
I’m with Leonard.
Right? I can’t believe Amy actually went through with it.
I told her to be true to herself and do what makes her happy.
Okay, look, it’s not my fault that she thought you were a bad boyfriend.
Sheldon.
Sure.
You couldn’t sleep either?
I don’t know.
Actually, I think he’s onto something.
That’s true. You are.
Can we talk?
All right, look, I’m sorry I said I was okay with everything before we got married. I hate that we’re going through this, but I don’t know what to do.
Okay, when I’m done with him, I’m gonna need more information.
Okay, look, I might be overreacting, but how am I supposed to get past this when I know tomorrow you’re gonna go to work and see this woman?
Really? Why is that?
No, but now that you’re being weird about it, maybe I should.
No, I just want to know that when you’re at work, there’s nothing going on.
Yeah, well, maybe she has interest in you.
I guess my big problem is I never saw Leonard as the kind of guy who would do something like this.
What do you think?
You know, I fell in love with Leonard because he wasn’t anything like the guys I was used to dating. I mean, I knew those guys weren’t above cheating because that’s usually how we met.
I want to believe you. I really do. Am I being naive?
You know, he never would’ve done this when we first met. He’s cockier now.
I never thought about it like that.
So, you said you had something to tell me.
Uh-huh.
I’m listening.
Okay, that is the lamest excuse you could’ve possibly come up with. But I get it.
Yeah. Yeah, sometimes I worry you’re gonna wake up and leave me for someone more like you.
You know what I mean. And, you know, maybe the way I’ve been reacting was me sabotaging this, too.
That sounds nice.
Oh. Oh, my God, that is the most beautiful thing anyone’s ever said to me.
It’s getting kind of cheesy, Leonard.
Oh, damn it, you topped it. Should we go to the bedroom and make this marriage official?
Okay.
Sheldon, I can’t believe you got us a wedding gift.
Oh.
That’s so great.
We?
Oh, no, no, I just, I said, Whee.
Nah, if I want to see a naked dancing man, I just flush the toilet while Leonard’s in the shower.
Hey.
You really didn’t have to, whoa! That is anatomic.
Oh, yeah, right. Lock up your daughters or Sheldon might lecture them about the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Oh, it’s good. I just wish Leonard would work up the courage to tell Sheldon he’s moving in here.
We are. I mean, he sleeps here. But it’s only a matter of time before Sheldon has a bad dream and tries to climb into bed with the Leonard-shaped pile of pillows.
Yes.
Yes.
You know, it is normal to want to change your look after a breakup.
Your glasses?
Your shoes.
Oh.
Okay, well, you’re a grown woman now.
Why? I can do it right here.
No. All you need is a needle and an ice cube. I’ve done it, like, a dozen times.
Oh, come on. I’ll be gentle. Let me take your ear virginity.
Uh, no, not yet. There’s still a few people I haven’t told personally.
Oh, just my parents and my entire family.
Well, I don’t want to hurt my dad. You know, he always wanted to dance with his daughter at her wedding.
They started to, then her water broke. You know, if he finds out we eloped, it’s gonna break his heart.
Well, not necessarily. You know, Dad’s not getting any younger, so if I wait long enough, I’ll just tell him he walked me down the aisle and it was magical.
There you go. You’re all done.
I’m starting to see why you and your mom aren’t very close.
You’re not gonna let this go, are you?
Fine, you want me to call? I’ll call. Why am I so nervous?
Yeah? How did it go? Did she make you crawl into the breaking-up drawer?
You’ve been giving me a hard time and you haven’t even told your mom about Sheldon?
Fine. I’m calling home, but when I’m done, you’re calling your mother.
Hey, Daddy.
Uh, good. Is Mom around?
Okay, I’ll talk to her later. Uh, Dad, there’s something I need to tell you. Leonard and I got married.
Last week. I’m sorry, I should’ve told you. It was a spur of the moment thing. I feel terrible. Please don’t be too disappointed.
Very. Leonard is so great.
Aw, thank you, Daddy. That means so much.
It is. You’re the best dad ever.
Well, what is it?
No.
Moondance?
You killed my pig?
When?
You didn’t tell me for a year?
Thanks a lot, guys.
Before I made that call, my pig was alive and happy and rolling around in the mud. Now he’s illegally buried in our backyard next to my great-grandmother.
No. He was a beloved member of the family.
It’s not funny. You’re up. Call your mother.
Phone, now.
Try dialing.
Okay, just give me that. Amy broke up with Sheldon, she got her ears pierced and she made us eat penis cookies. Hang on. She wants to talk to you.
What? What are you doing back?
Oh, I’m sorry.
If it makes you feel any better, I pierced Amy’s ears and her mom made her sit in my closet.
My dad killed my pig with his tractor.
You win.
Oh, we’re glad you had fun.
Uh, well, honey, you know, now that Leonard and I are married, it kind of makes sense that we actually live together.
Sheldon, please, we already feel bad about this.
I’m proud of you. You’re taking this really well.
What’s the matter?
So, what are you thinking for dinner?
Well, honey, you don’t live with Sheldon any more. You can have anything you want.
How about Thai food?
Hey, we’re going to dinner. You want to come?
Hang on. Wait, you actually think it’s 2003?
Are you doing okay?
Well, come on, he’s a grown man in his 30s pretending to be a grown man in his 20s. He’s fine.
What else can you do? Move back in with him?
Well, so do I, but don’t you want to live with your wife and set the thermostat to whatever you want and have your body tell you when it’s time to go to the bathroom, you know, not a schedule slipped underneath your door every morning?
Trust me, this is the right thing.
They’re not saying that.
No, no, they’re really not.
Okay, you don’t know what’s gonna happen.
Okay, look, we don’t need to rush into anything. All right? Maybe instead of Leonard moving in with me, we just leave things the way they are, and sometimes we’ll sleep over there, and sometimes we’ll sleep over here.
Sure.
Well, it’s not forever. It’s just for a while. If you want, we can think of him like he’s our dog.
Yeah, I think it’s great you guys want to get more exercise, but do you really think sports is the right choice for you?
Okay, Leonard, sweetheart, you twisted your ankle playing Scrabble.
All right, well, what have you tried so far?
Really? In a comic book store?
Hey, have you read the online reviews for this place?
All right, well, Heather H says, the owner stared at me the whole time and didn’t blink once. Kelly M says, the creepy guy who runs it asked me out, then called himself stupid before I could say no. Jessica K says, I told the weird owner that I liked his shirt. He took it off and gave it to me.
Yeah.
Well, you’re talking to us now. I mean, you don’t seem nervous.
Okay. Don’t be offended, but, what went wrong with you?
Well, he knew he was on the breast cam.
And sometimes we marry them anyway.
What?
I told you things would change if you plucked your eyebrows.
Well, what are you gonna do?
I think she means not a weirdo.
All right, well, what happens if you imagine him naked?
Oh, good for him.
So is she, like, homeless, or framing him for a crime?
Oh, which one? Maybe we can get Amy to try it.
Oh, and if you lose the game, you have to go out with Stuart.
Wow. So how many girls have you met?
Well, so how does it work?
Oh, come on, just let him put the app on your phone.
Okay, let me see. Nope, nope, nope, oh, he’s cute.
And he’s sad about it.
Hey.
Okay, here we go. Now everyone can see. All right. Where do we stand on cross-eyed Mike?
Okay, okay, okay. Thumbs down. Next.
Well if he’s good in bed, she can throw him a fish.
Look, it’s Stuart.
Okay, does everyone remember the rules? If he’s shirtless, one sip. Posing with a pet, two sips. Pet and shirtless, chug like it’s your job. And pull.
Chug.
Amy, you’re getting a text.
You went on a date last night? Are you seeing someone?
I can’t believe you’re seeing someone and we don’t even know about it.
Amy.
Well, good for you.
In school?
Does the study say what happens to the unpopular kids?
Yes. Don’t take your shirt off just because the director said so.
And I’m laughing like I did the first time I heard it.
Aw. When he says things like that, I just want to hug him and make everything better.
Yeah, you probably had it coming.
Hi. Look at that. I’m in a movie, my shirt stayed on.
Oh, my God. We’ve done things on that couch.
Okay, enough about the napkin. What else you hiding in there?
I would.
Oh, what’s that ring box?
What?
Okay, back to the ring. Does Amy even know about this?
I know. It just…
I knew I could smell ’em.
Oh pfft.
I’m sorry. I’m not here.
Um.
All right, fine. Well, Sheldon, I’m no expert, but aren’t you completely missing the point of Spock? I mean, he liked to act like he had no emotions, but he was still half human.
I’m just saying, you pretend you don’t, but you have feelings just like everybody else.
Sweetie, you’re yelling.
I can’t believe Sheldon was gonna ask Amy to marry him.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Do you know what that means?
Are you telling the truth?
What are you gonna do?
I think it’s so adorable you’re making Sheldon breakfast.
Aren’t you worried you’re making French toast on oatmeal day?
Oh, I don’t want credit for that.
Oh. Good for you.
And you don’t want to make the same mistake with the next woman.
Don’t take advice from a man who threw his shoe at a crow.
Come on, Amy, show us the dress.
Uh, I don’t think any of your comfort zones are showing.
No one ever bought me drinks at a bar because my brain just popped out of my shirt.
Ooh.
Yeah, come on, tell us more.
Well, we’re your best friends, give us one more detail and we promise we’ll leave you alone.
All right, where is tall British Dave taking you?
Good luck. I threw out all my tall ones when I married Leonard.
We don’t even know what time they’re gonna be there.
Damn, you’re sneaky.
Oh, I forgot to tell you, we’re gonna meet up with Bernadette to spy on Amy and her date.
What, and you think I want to see a documentary about aluminium can recycling?
No, it’s the movie your wife doesn’t want you to see.
You’re not curious who she’s out with?
But you’re curious about aluminium cans? You’re a weird little guy.
Hey. So, where are they?
Oh, damn it, we should have brought binoculars.
Oh, there he is.
Yeah.
What, now you’re interested? You didn’t even want to come.
Fine.
Your what?
He really seems into her.
I had to; we’re married now.
What? Here, give me, give me. Oh, my God. Oh, my God, they’re coming right towards us.
Okay. Well, wait, what about Leonard?
Oh, no.
Yeah, Leonard and I are gonna be cooking all day.
But we can’t.
Mm-hmm.
Look at us. Our first Thanksgiving as husband and wife.
Sweetie, you are grown up.
Yep. What’s the code?
It’s not working.
Nope.
Uh.
Yes, I do.
May.
I’m not gonna say your password out loud. That is not secure.
Well, you don’t know everything about me.
Oh, look at us. Our last Thanksgiving as husband and wife.
Fine. You think you know so much. Who’s my favourite Spice Girl?
Who’s my favorite member of NSYNC?
Who’s my favorite Backstreet Boy?
Damn it.
Hang on. Wait, wait. Why don’t I like the lingerie you got me?
Interesting. I never told you that.
No. I never told anyone that. But I did write it in my journal.
I also know your voice gets higher when you’re lying.
How can reading my journal be an accident?
Well, when you realized what it was, why didn’t you stop?
All right. Let’s just finish cooking.
Okay, really, I’m fine.
Oh, God. Stop. I don’t want you to read something you think’ll just butter me up. I want to hear the most recent thing you wrote.
Does it really say that?
OMG. OMG. We’re so close to the new Star Wars. I can’t take it. Gah. Gah?
Hey. Where’d you go? I can’t tell if the turkey’s done.
What are you doing?
I am not putting that on the Internet. I don’t want people to see this. I don’t want to see it.
Oh.
Well, I’ve never been friends with any of my exes.
Yeah. So you have a song stuck in your head. It happens to everybody.
I told you if we were patient, he’d figure it out for himself.
Public nudity?
Hey, sweetie, why don’t you take a break and do something else for a while?
Okay, great. What is it?
I’ll pay a thousand dollars to watch you cut footloose.
Oh, my God, he won’t stop.
Nobody knows. That’s why he’s number one. Can you please go talk to him?
Once? Who got the gum out of his hair?
Fine.
Who cares?
Problem solved.
Come on, Sheldon. There are plenty of smart people who don’t have mental problems.
Maybe he just had bread in his pocket.
Do you even like the Beach Boys?
Why?
Okay, look, I know Amy’s like an old lady, but she’s not old enough to have a song from the sixties written about her.
She did soften your life, didn’t she?
Better. You’re the lint trap of my love.
I’m really happy you and Amy are back together.
Uh, sweetie, you do realize Thursday is Amy’s birthday.
You guys just got back together. You might not want to ditch her on her birthday.
Aw, that’s nice. Put that on her cake.
Well, find out.
Come in.
We’re sorry. What do you need?
Wow. You can really arrange that?
Sorry. I was waiting for the bazinga.
Okay, well, what’s the third option?
Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Let’s, let’s, let’s just recap our options. All right, we’ve got harp thing, sheep thing.
Sheldon, being physical with Amy is a huge step for you.
Sheldon, that’s so beautiful.
Well, you’re spending your birthday with Sheldon. Why not celebrate early?
Sure, sure. Or we could take you to get a bikini wax.
Uh, I don’t know. It was just a thought.
Oh, we just want you to be prepared for any surprises that might happen tomorrow.
Yes. He said he wants to do something to show you how much you mean to him.
I know. Then you’ll finally stop talking about it.
Have fun, guys.
Knowing them, they will.
I don’t know. He said he’s ready.
Well, I’m gonna stay positive. I mean, we talked, I told him what women like, and after he stopped giggling, he seemed pretty sure of himself.
Hey.
Oh, not good. Still couldn’t get in to see Dr. Gallo.
I’m not sick. It’s for work. There’s this doctor who refuses to see any sales reps. I’ve been trying to get in for months.
Well, the doctor’s a woman, but yes, because you never know.
Um, a psychiatrist. Why?
Yeah, they already know I’m a pharmaceutical sales rep.
That’s interesting.
Uh, denial. See, sweetie, the list goes on and on.
I don’t know. You could talk to her, and maybe if it comes up, you could ask if she’s heard about the drug.
Thank you.
Hey, how’d it go?
Yeah, no one cares. Did you help me out or not?
You’re only hearing that because I cannot roll my eyes any louder.
Really? Oh, you’re the best husband ever.
I guess.
And in double-blind studies, Placinex proved extremely effective in treating all kinds of anxiety. Actually, funny story, the boys in the lab were worried about getting FDA approval for Placinex. They started taking it, stopped worrying.
Uh, do you have any questions?
Mm-hmm?
I just meant a question about the drug.
I don’t wanna.
You know, I used to wear tank tops a lot. That was a big selling point.
How can I not sound like his mother when our entire bedroom is filled with Star Wars toys? I mean, have you ever had sex with a stuffed Wookiee watching you?
You know, if anything, he’s turning me into his mother. Before I did pharmaceutical sales, I was an actress. You know, I was pretty good. You know, girl-next-door type, but hot. Doable.
And not only am I Leonard’s mother, but we have this man-child living with us named Sheldon.
Yeah, he’s as real as the fine I get when I use too much toilet paper.
I do. You know, Leonard’s right. Talking to you is really helping.
Okay, if you think it’ll help. Oh, just don’t make it Placinex. I do not need sudden fits of homicidal rage.
I guess I just miss when life was simpler.
Hey, so I saw a movie trailer the other day. How could Batman possibly fight Superman? I mean, isn’t that dumb?
No, no, no, no, no. I’ve seen that movie. It’s called Iron Man.
And now Ben Affleck is Batman?
Ooh, we should watch that next girls’ night.
Oh, I love me some Leo.
You really don’t know why?
Sheldon, I cooked you breakfast. I made your bed. I checked your mouth for thrush. You can rub your own chest.
Oh, that could be fun. But just to be clear, you mean a party bus with booze and music, right, not, like, juice boxes and video games?
Well, I’m in. When are we going?
Oh, Sheldon, you don’t even like it there.
Can this wait?
Okay, fine, I accept your apology, now get out.
Leonard.
So, was the fight really bad?
No.
Is she okay?
And there’s your next T-shirt.
Here’s some champagne.
You couldn’t give us just one weekend?
If we drop them off at a fire station, they have to take them, no questions asked.
And now you see the problem.
Shake it, baby.
Yeah.
What is that?
Ah, yeah, Grandma by Calvin Klein. You know, the last time I got a hand written letter it was from someone who told me I parked like a blind person.
I park fine.
Constance, are you sure I can’t pour you some wine?
She could just eat him up.
Yes. I’m a pharmaceutical sales rep.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. You go ahead. I’ll catch up with you.
All right, let’s go.
Wow. You know, the last time I saw my grandma, the most exciting thing was watching the ash of her cigarette get longer and wondering if it was gonna fall in her pudding.
Yeah, right in there. She ate it and everything.
Come in.
Uh-oh.
Hi. Sorry. Sheldon would like to say something to you.
Go ahead.
Say yes.
So, you really gonna break up with her?
Well, I have broken up with my fair share of guys. I mean, how many times did I break up with Leonard?
All right, my advice to you is do it at her place so you can leave when you need to, uh, tell the truth, make it quick and be prepared for tears.
No, I, I really didn’t.
An hour? What? That’s crazy. We have a reservation.
So what did you say?
All right, well, can’t you, like, slip him some money or something?
Do people like money? Is that what you’re asking?
Now, is that a smart thing to say on a holiday that’s basically national sex night?
This is ridiculous. You know, I’m gonna go talk to the maître d’.
I don’t know. I’m, I’m gonna flirt with him.
I’m still sleeping with you tonight.
Hi there. What’s your name?
Oh, boy, it is crazy in here tonight, huh, Glen?
Yes. Oh, bet your girlfriend is super bummed you had to work tonight. Anyway, look, we have been waiting a while, and I just…
You don’t have to call me ma’am.
I mean, we’re basically the same age.
How old are you?
Just shut up, Glen. Come on, let’s get out of here.
Because I’m young. Let’s go.
It is freaking amazing.
I was just hungry and cranky, and I’ve never been called ma’am before.
Kind of. When was the first time someone called you sir?
Can you believe when I met you I was 22? I mean, it’s crazy. Where did all that time go?
Yeah, go ahead and make jokes, but your thirties are almost over.
You’re closer to 40 than you are 30.
Won’t make us any younger.
Okay, like what?
Yeah. No one wants to see that. Hey, how about skinny dipping at the beach?
Oh, there’s a screening of Moulin Rouge, I heard the crowd sings along and stuff.
Midnight.
Okay, great. Oh, wait. Uh, it’s sold out.
Yes.
Happy Valentine’s Day!
Cleaning up is not young and fun.
Don’t say anything. act surprised when she tells you. All right, how you want to do this?
Oh, my God, I can’t believe it.
Are, are you not happy about this?
No, no, come on. Come on, you’re not gonna get fat. You’re gonna be beautiful and glowing and, and have the cutest little baby bump ever.
Oh, that’s all right. All I heard was skinny.
Yeah, I’m sure it was just the initial shock of it all.
Yeah, yeah, we should go out.
Uh, I don’t know, a bar?
We can, but all right.
Okay, look, we don’t have to go anywhere. We can just, you know, stay here and hang out in the hot tub.
Yeah, yeah, you get to buy toys and little clothes.
And whenever you’re hungry, you’ll be in a minivan with Cheerios all over the floor.
Oh, tell us.
Oh, come on, we’re all grown-ups. We’ve all done it.
Wait, I remember that. Hang on. You did it at our place?
No.
No, we’re a team. If you can’t go in, we’re not going in.
Okay, it’s not like she’s got the Christ child in there, all right? Oh. It’s Leonard. He says Sheldon’s drunk and they’re gonna do karaoke if we want to join them.
What’s it say?
Hey, guys. Congratulations.
So, you gonna get up there later?
That was such a fun night.
Yeah, yeah. I was a little surprised when you decided to beat-box.
Well, I am so happy for Howard and Bernadette.
Babies? Well, I’m not in a rush but someday, yeah, sure. What about you?
On the other hand, we might lack a certain maturity.
W, wait a minute. You mention his birthday and he vanishes?
Well, where is he?
Oh, my God.
Yeah, what is the problem? Is it about getting older?
Oh, poor thing.
You know, if you had a party now, you have plenty of friends that would love to come.
Yeah.
All right, what about music?
No music it is.
Thank you so much for helping us, Stuart.
Okay, sweetie, we’re on the clock here. Can you hate yourself and frost at the same time?
Yeah, birthday party first. Pity party later.
You know, to be fair, we did get married in Vegas and didn’t invite her.
Okay, this is ridiculous. Sheldon? Can I come in?
Because you e-mail me your bathroom schedule once a week, even though I’ve clicked unsubscribe, like, a thousand times. So, what’s going on?
I get that. Hey, you want to just bring a few people in here? You know, Wil Wheaton in the bathtub, Batman on the toilet. It’ll be like the weirdest Comic-Con ever.
Oh, pl, you’re not ruining it. Look, at some point, Raj will try to get everyone to do the Electric Slide. Now, that will ruin it.
That’s fine. You know, I hate that your sister and her friends used to torture you. But what I hate even more is, if I was there, I would have tortured you, too.
My point is, there was a time I never would’ve been friends with someone like you, and now you are one of my favourite people. So, if what you need is to spend your birthday in a bathroom, I’m happy to do it with you.
Sweetie, you are weird. Everyone knows you’re weird, but they’re all still here because they care about you so much.
Okay, everybody, Sheldon is gonna come back out, but I think he’s a little embarrassed, so let’s all be extra nice, okay?
Oh, wait, wait, wait. Stuart didn’t get to speak.
You nailed it.
Okay, while they get the cake, Sheldon, I just want to say, I hope you didn’t think you were gonna get through tonight without a hug.
Is that a pregnancy thing?
But now you’ll be able to make your own milk to eat the cookies with.
Oh, sure. Let me see it.
Raj, I got you this before we split up, but couldn’t return it and thought you’d like to have it. Happy belated Valentine’s Day, Emily.
Nice, or is she trying to manipulate him?
I know one way to find out. Sniff this.
Come on, just open it.
Well, never hurts to have a spare.
See, she’s trying to get you back. Now, that is exactly what I would’ve gotten you if I had any idea what it is or what you do.
Yeah, yeah, and beauty’s on the inside, size doesn’t matter, how much she spend?
Okay, so, she drops off a five hundred dollar gift and she’s not trying to get back together with you?
Okay, answer it. Just be strong. And if she starts to cry, don’t make any promises. And most importantly, put it on speaker so we can hear.
I know, but you did it. I’m so proud of you.
Say hi to Emily for us.
Sheldon, did you draft the contract?
Ooh. You’re gonna make out so hard tonight.
What?
If you guys would shut up, I could tell you. Oh. Be cool, be cool, be cool.
You know what, hang on. What if Sheldon had no choice but to be respectful?
No. What I’m saying is you could add a clause to the contract that he can’t make fun of Howard.
Wow. That is a lot of whereupons.
Wait, wait, wait. What are these changes on page six?
Hey, guys.
Yup, so we brought you some lunch and we are gonna go look for ’em.
So, how’s it goin’?
Is there anything we can do to help?
Wow, really? Called my bluff. All righty then.
Hey, wouldn’t it be funny if after all your years of hard work, I’m the one who makes a scientific breakthrough? He doesn’t think that’s funny.
Like this?
Oh.
How can you call yourself a scientist and run out of solder?
Honey, honey, honey, let me stop you. That is, is not a funny story.
Yeah, you guys run to the store and let the women handle the science for a change.
Okay, so what is solder?
I mean, it’s crazy, isn’t it? I moved here from Nebraska to be an actress, and now I’m sitting in an engineering lab at Caltech helping to build a prototype for a high-tech guidance system.
Oh, they went to the store to get solder, which is metal you melt to make science things.
You were home alone and had no one to play with?
I think we’re good.
Why?
Un-freakin’ believable.
No. You know what? Don’t. Don’t. Let’s let them think they’re getting away with it.
Mm-hmm.
All right, how are we gonna play this when they return?
Sweetie, I know you think jokes like that are funny, but do you really think you could handle making out with both of us?
Yeah, that’s pretty good.
Okay, here they come.
Hey, what’s this?
Yeah. You know, I want to be upset, but we did kind of have fun working on the prototype.
Yeah, it’s fine.
And he’s back in the closet.
Yeah.
What am I smelling?
That’s not what the forest smells like.
Okay, if that’s true, why aren’t there more genius squirrels?
You know, there’s a cabin in Big Bear that a doctor I work with keeps offering me.
She.
But I could get her.
Sure.
I’ll see if it’s available.
Hey. Amy’s downstairs.
Uh, what, what you got goin’ on here?
I can see that. What team did you get?
Well, we’ll be in the woods.
Nice hat, Sheldon.
It’s so cute and rustic up here.
This place is great.
Well, she is taking me to an Indigo Girls concert, so hold that thought.
This sucks.
You know, we could still go. A little rain isn’t gonna kill us.
No.
Hey, let’s light a fire.
Got it.
Hey, you guys want to play a drinking game?
Not the drinking game, a drinking game.
All right, it’s called Never Have I Ever. The rules are simple. Someone says something they’ve never done, but if you have done it, you take a drink.
Okay. Calm down. I’ll go first. All right, let’s see. Never have I ever…
Very funny. Okay, never have I ever… yeah, you know what? Let’s just circle back.
Sheldon, what did you do?
What, he arrested you for that?
And then you got arrested.
How?
Fine, is that how you want to play this? All right, never have I ever come up with a nickname for my own genitals.
Yeah, go ahead.
I can’t believe this. You realize I make more money than you?
We’re married. We’re supposed to share everything.
How long have you had this secret account?
Well, how much you got in there?
My God, Leonard, do you know what I could do with that kind of money?
What good is it if you don’t use it?
Well, I have a secret I’ve been keeping from you, too.
I hate my job.
Because I don’t feel good flirting with doctors for sales. I mean, I know I make a lot of money. But I haven’t been happy for a while.
Because I know how important it is to you that I’m having some success.
Okay, really? So you’d be fine if I went back to acting and waiting tables again?
Well, it’s not what I want to do.
Doesn’t matter what I want. Look, this job is gonna get me out of debt. So I’m gonna do the grown-up thing and see it through.
I guess.
I love you, too.
Well, guess I gotta drink.
What is the problem?
Well, why the hell did I memorize the Pledge?
Well, why are you fighting him on this?
Well, I will still come to your meeting.
Because it’s important to him, and when we signed the roommate agreement, we made a deal.
Mm, I think so. Dragons, snow zombies, and all the hot guys are dead.
Uh-oh, somebody’s still pouting.
If it’s because you lost a stick, I know where it went.
You know you’re gonna make up with him. Can we just skip to that part?
Really? The only adult?
All right, you would think the only adult wouldn’t let something silly ruin our entire night.
Oh, he’s all bent out of shape about having a roommate agreement meeting.
Don’t worry, he’ll come around.
You don’t know?
Come on, Sheldon, we’ll watch Game of Thrones over here.
Leonard’s being a jerk, so we’re gonna watch over here.
Yeah, come on, Raj.
May I take your cloak?
What’s up?
Where’d you get that from?
Ugh. Amy, why did you tell him that?
I don’t always defend Sheldon.
What about your weird relationship with him?
Okay, well, that was murder, this was an accident.
There you go.
Is he still wearing the Batman suit under the Man-Bat suit?
Oh, hey, if you guys are free this weekend, I won a night of wine tasting from work.
Mm-hmm.
All right, well, let me know if you guys want to go.
The little choo-choo for toddlers?
Yeah, give her a break from, well, come on.
Hey, you ready to go?
What are you doing?
You actually smell the wine?
Are your sinuses acting up?
Hey, are you still hanging out with Bernadette tonight?
Oh, good for you.
No honey baked ham in a hot tub, got it.
Okay, we’re leaving, love you, bye.
You guys been here long?
Oh, yeah.
Uh, I don’t know.
Ah, there’s definitely some oak.
Oh. Zack, hi. You guys remember Zack.
We did.
Yes.
E equals MC squared. Yeah. E is for energy, M for mass, and C for the speed of light.
Oh, Leonard mumbles it when he wants sex to last longer.
Uh, you know, I’m not really around that much. Amy knows much more than I do.
We didn’t.
Helium.
Yes.
Yes. Pi.
More specific.
Yes.
Oh, that’s a Venn Diagram, and I remember because I thought to myself, venn is he gonna stop talking about this diagram?
Okay.
Sure.
No problem.
You really want me to pick up your mother all by myself?
Or a way for you to avoid her?
Fine, if you really want me to, I will pick your mom up.
Yeah, you know what, she is my mother-in-law, and I’d like for us to have a good relationship.
Okay.
Or as I know him?
Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding.
Wow. Didn’t even make it out of the parking lot. Uh, you know what, enough about Leonard. Let’s talk about you. What would you like to do while you’re here?
Well, I’d actually like for us to be close, but maybe we start with our favourite books and work our way up to my husband’s sex organs.
Um, does Pottery Barn, Spring count?
Uh, for starters, maybe you can not psychoanalyze everything I say?
Uncomfortable.
Oh. Sorry. Didn’t know you made those. Hey, listen, what if we have a little mother-in-law, daughter-in-law dinner tonight?
Or I invite a few girlfriends, ’cause hearing you say the two of us just sent a chill right down my spine.
You know, she’s my mother-in-law. Why can’t I bond with her like that?
You know, being in a relationship with Leonard also comes with its challenges.
Um, it has seat warmers.
How long have I had spinach in my teeth?
Okay, you know what? This is ridiculous. I’ve been trying to make a connection with you all day, and clearly I’m getting nowhere.
What I was seeking was some sort of friendship. But at this point, I’ll take you not insulting me to my face.
You’ve been doing it all day. Do you even know what an insult is?
Okay, good example.
To be honest, I’m surprised you cared about the wedding at all.
It was spur of the moment.
Thank you. So if we would have asked you to come to Vegas to see us get married, you would’ve come?
You really think we made a mistake?
Wow. Okay. Well, um, how about this? Maybe while you’re still in town, Leonard and I could have another small ceremony. You know, if you’re interested.
She would find it perfectly acceptable. You guys saw it. We bonded.
Hi, how was the screening?
Ugh, I should’ve never bought him that colouring book that explains Black History Month.
Uh, you know, it started a little rocky, but I think we got to a good place.
Yeah, and when I dropped her off at the hotel, she even gave me a hug.
No problem. Um, so listen, I don’t know if you have any plans next weekend, but I kind of promised your mom we’d have another wedding ceremony so she could attend this time.
Yeah, kind of, but now we can invite our friends and family.
Come on, it’ll be fun, and, you know, your mom was genuinely hurt we didn’t invite her to the first one.
Leonard, come on, she’s your mom. If we can do something to make her happy, why wouldn’t we?
Hey, look, then forget about her, let’s do it for us. We could keep it small and informal. This time we can invite our families.
Thanks to overcrowding, yeah.
Oh, you have to invite him. I haven’t seen him since the divorce.
Well, then it’s settled. Yay. So funny. I never thought my second marriage would be to you.
Okay, so it’s not a legal ceremony, it’s just a chance for us to redo our vows so everyone can be part of it.
No.
I don’t see how I could.
I was kind of hoping you would.
Okay, wait, you’re inviting people to our wedding?
Okay, fine, but why would you invite him to our wedding?
Yeah, I’m also doing it for Leonard. I think this could really help their relationship.
Whew, chilly.
Sorry.
Alfred. Thank you for coming!
Thank you.
Uh, who’s hungry? We have a reservation at the best restaurant in town.
No, of course not.
You know, Beverly, I know you and Alfred have your differences, but if you think about it, if you hadn’t married him, there’d be no Leonard. So that’s good, right?
Oh, maybe. Get closer.
Well, why is he turning here? The restaurant’s the other way.
Oh, so follow him.
Well, go faster. You’re losing him.
You know what, flash your lights. Let him know it’s you.
Hey.
So, what did we miss?
Yeah, I’m gonna call Bernadette and see what’s keeping them.
Oh, thanks for asking until I did.
Aw.
Um, if, if we want to order the soufflé, we might want to get on that.
‘Cause they both turned their phones off.
Really? ‘Cause I love it.
Your parents are old. Anything unspeakable was finished by 9:30. Go to sleep.
God, I thought my brother fresh out of jail was gonna make everyone uncomfortable, but now this.
Okay, I’m gonna go pick up my family. Like an hour and half, two hours, depending on traffic.
Oh, hey, and do yourself a favour, all right? When Beverly gets here, do not bring up last night. All right? As far as you’re concerned, you don’t know anything, you didn’t see anything. I want you just to play dumb.
What? Oh. Hi. Okay, hey there, I got, I’m sorry, I got to go now.
Why?
Okay, Beverley, aren’t you overreacting a little? All we know is they shared a cab and had a nightcap.
Yeah, plus if you leave, Alfred will know he got under your skin.
Oh, I can’t wait for you to meet everyone. I told them all about you.
Uh, not everything, just, like, the jail and drugs part.
What?
Well, Mom, I’m sorry, but…
So, uh, Randall, can’t believe after all these years you finally get to visit me in California.
All right, you guys, uh, get settled in, then we’ll go across the hall and say hi to everyone.
I thought it was really funny.
Okay. Listen, Mom, I know you’re nervous, but I promise you, no one is gonna judge you or this family.
Pretty good. I actually just got assigned a much better territory.
Well, I learned from the best.
Aw.
Hey.
Hey. Is everyone getting to know each other?
Okay, I understand everyone’s a little tense today, so I am just gonna get to the important stuff. Leonard, standing here with you in front of our family and friends is bringing up a lot of feelings. Like what a good idea it was to elope the first time. But also how incredibly happy you make me. Thank you for marrying me. Hopefully for the last time.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh, thanks, Mom.
Is he? I never noticed.
All right, we work at a giant pharmaceutical company. Get him some anti-anxiety meds.
You know, when Leonard’s feeling anxious I make him take a long walk.
Well, for a while. Then he comes back.
No. You told me not to.
Would they really do that?
How did you think you were gonna hide your pregnancy?
Yeah, drive safe. We love you. And give us a call… Oh, my God, it was me, it was me. I’m the one who blabbed she was pregnant!
I didn’t mean to. It just slipped out in front of her assistantone day. I…
Oh, here’s your coat, honey. That’s such a cute jacket. Oh God, I feel so bad, I just lied to her.
Is that really what’s important right now?
That’s super helpful, Amy. Thanks a lot. I can’t wait to do that.
Hi.
Oh, had to go to a sales seminar on our new sleeping pill.
Great.
In, like, two minutes. Yeah. So, how is everything going around here? Are you still upset about people finding out you’re pregnant?
Sure, sure. Uh, did you ever figure out who told?
Hmm. Well, I guess it’s just gonna remain a mystery, you know, like whatever happened in that seminar after they dimmed the lights.
Uh, you know, when I was in high school, there was this girl who was talking about me behind my back, so me and all my friends, we cornered her in the bathroom and forgave her.
Okay, all right, honey, you know what? There was something I was too scared to tell you yesterday, and now I’m just balls-out terrified to tell you, but the truth is it wasn’t Barbara Chen, it was me. I’m the reason everyone knows.
Well, it was an accident.I am so sorry I lied.
Oh, you know, I also lied about the girl in the bathroom. Yeah, we actually dumped her retainer in the toilet and put it back in her mouth.
Hi.
What are you doing?
Does he even like lemon bars?
Something happen at the meeting?
And you talked?
Well, if it makes you feel any better, Bernadette’s mad at me, too.
Why would that make me feel better?
Okay. Never mind.
Well, I told people at work that she’s pregnant. She wasn’t ready for them to know.
Well, it just slipped out. I feel terrible.
Oh, hi.
Yeah, come on in.
Oh, thank you, and I’m sorry I lied about it.
Oh, that’s what Amy said. So what’s going on with the research project? Are they gonna let you run it?
You threatened to sue?
That’s funny. I learned something totally different.
Oh, that’s so beautiful.
Good morning.
Oh, I’ll go. I like a party.
It’s okay, I’ll still go.
Oh, I’ll have some wine and listen to people go on about crap I don’t understand. I mean, how is it any different than every single day of my life?
Hi.
How early are we?
I suddenly wish Sheldon was here.
So should we talk to each other or mingle?
Yeah, I mean, I could see him eating one or two guests, but not a whole party.
Oh, it’s funny, I was just thinking the same thing about you.
Wait, what do you mean she’s her?
No.
What? You tell me about your foot fungus, but this is a secret?
Now Sheldon’s popular? What is happening?
You trend setter.
Okay, okay, so Amy’s cool, Sheldon’s cool. Tell me about Leonard.
Leonard Hofstadter.
That’s me, I’m her. You know, he didn’t trick me, he just wore me down.
You know, I had no idea Caltech is exactly like my high school.
Wow, you popular girls are mean.
Well, so are you. In fact, you know what? We will never take you for granite. Did you get that? Granite? A little geology joke.
Okay.
Ugh, did you lose anything valuable?
Oh, so nothing. Great. Do they know why the pipe burst?
Well, if you need a place to crash, you can stay with us.
Of course. You can stay in Leonard’s room, and we’ll stay at my place.
No, not at all.
I guess so. And I’d finally get to live alone with my husband.
Yeah, and we’ll be right across the hall.
Okay, you guys had sex one whole time. Nothing can put out a fire like that.
Don’t be proud of that.
Well, where would you go?
Wait. Why don’t you guys stay across the hall, and we will live here?
Okay, it won’t be that bad. We wouldn’t even sit in your spot while you’re gone.
You know, I’m very proud of you for trying to live with Amy.
Mm.
That was a cute story. So, um, what did you want to ask me?
Mm. Well, the biggie is, if she has an insane roommate, kick him out as soon as possible.
I know it sounds like a cliché, but compromise is key.
Do little things, like bring her a cup of coffee in bed.
You’re gonna be seeing each other a lot, so respect each other’s personal space.
Well, here’s your key.
Now, now, there’s no need to make this emotional.
Yeah, you wrote it on my hand.
Good night.
Wow. I cannot believe we are alone in our own apartment.
So, what do you want to do?
Really? You’re a genius, and that’s the first thing you come up with?
Ugh. Can we just have sex?
Inevitable, you say?
Wow, where did you learn these moves?
I told you not to do the worm.
Yeah, get it, girl.
Even more not what you think.
Yeah.
Was that a science diss?
Was it a good one?
Oh.
I feel like I should say damn.
Damn.
The new neighbours are weird.
Okay, I’m confused. Which one is Mr. Robot?
Can’t.
Didn’t.
Believe me, we know what you’re going through.
Mm-hmm.
She’s right. That’s reasonable.
Yeah. You tell him, babe.
Sheldon, what do you say to that?
I hope one of those people is a monkey, ’cause this is bananas.
All right. Well, let’s just get them apart for a while so they can cool down.
So it’s okay for you to joke around?
Just as challenging?
As you?
Just as challenging as you?
Leonard breathes on me, too. It’s not a big deal.
Well, so does Leonard. It’s kind of annoying, but it’s not the end of the world.
You know, so does Leonard. Can’t I just get ready in the morning without him giving me his goofy thumbs-up? Hey-hey-hey.
Agreed. Thank you.
You know, one night, Leonard’s nose whistled so loud, I swear it was like sleeping on a train track.
Is it? Oh. It’s like his sinuses are right here in the car.
Yeah, I’ll take you for ice cream.
Oh, please, you’re barely interested in a physical relationship with one person. Why would you want to confuse and disappoint others?
You kiss your mother with that mouth? ‘Cause it’s fine.
Well, who you gonna hit on? The girl in front of us got strawberry. That’s your favourite.
What about the girl behind the counter?
Is it possible you might not actually want to meet someone?
Thank you.
All right. Come on. What is really going on with you?
All right.
Not relating. Go on.
Oh, now I’m with ya. Okay.
Oh, that’s awful.
Well, what happened with your dad?
You poor thing.
And you’re afraid you’re gonna do something like your dad did?
Down the road? Sheldon, she wanted to share a toothbrush holder with you, and now you’re at an ice cream parlour trying to pick up women.
Honey, instead of worrying about pain you might cause in the future, how about trying to fix the pain you’re causing her right now?
Okay.
Just finish your ice cream so I can get you home to bed.
We’re back.
We’re doing good. I think Sheldon has something he would like to say to Amy.
Do you want him back?
Call me crazy, but I found it moving.
Hey, have you ever heard of the Van Nuys Comic-Con?
I got asked to sign autographs there.
Well, it could be for the monkey movie. It could be my haemorrhoid commercial. The list does not go on.
It doesn’t matter. I’m not doing it.
You just said yourself, it’s sad.
I don’t know.
I guess it wouldn’t hurt to meet some fans and make a little extra money.
Oh, yeah.
What’s all this?
Okay. Leonard, it’s sweet you’re excited about this, but it’ll be a miracle if one person asks for my autograph.
Who’s that?
Oh, there’s so much I want to change.
Really? I feel like I’m selling candy so our team can get new uniforms.
Alright, why not five and ten bucks?
Hey, that guy’s looking over here.
I don’t know. Be cool. He’s coming. He’s coming. Hi.
Well, thanks.
Your love confuses me.
Okay. Who do I make it out to?
Okay.
That did not clear things up.
What’s your name?
Okay.
Been hearing that a lot today.
Yep, there they are.
Here you go.
Well, go ahead. He’s right over there.
Hello.
Thank you.
I assume we’re still talking about the movies, but after today, who knows.
Oh, sure.
Leonard…
Yeah, he really is.
And he started to slowly wear me down.
Yeah, except the river kept showing me his Pokémon cards.
I think it’s hot.
You know, once, I proposed to him.
Yeah, that’s gonna cost you later.
I can’t believe I’m saying this, but can we watch the news or something?
Yeah, I wonder what they’re gonna do when her apartment’s ready.
Well, you’ve lied to Sheldon.
So, what’s the deal with your apartment? Why’s it taking so long?
Oh, no, what happened?
Wet wall?
Mm. So why don’t they just get more drywall?
Okay, are you done? Bernadette told me your apartment’s ready.
But is Sheldon really believing all this crap?
Oh, don’t worry, I won’t.
The woman at the wall store?
Hi.
Yeah, we swung by her apartment on the way to the restaurant, and they’re gonna be fixing it for a while.
I did, still a mess.
Ubabsubolubutubly ubi duboo.
Ubif Lubenubard tubold hubim, ubit’s pubossubibuble.
Okay. That’s enough. You know what? What is going on?
Uh, she’s enjoyed living with you. It’s called being in love.
What? Tha… That is not true.
Oh, so, you believe your friend, and your friend’s wife and your own eyes over me? Wow.
Uh, did you notice your key chain?
Why did you tell Howard I was hiding Leonard’s things?
And what? Your wizard robes are next to go.
Ubamy bube cubool.
That’s a great idea.
Sweetie, once you stop paying rent, none of this is really yours.
Thank you.
Okay, but you may feel some discomfort.
Do you really mean that?
Great, and just so you know, I’m not getting rid of all your stuff.
That candle and you.
Uhbubububuh, I can make do with just the candle.
We turned your room into a sex dungeon.
Okay. Open your eyes and see your new room.
I know I went a little overboard. We can always dial it back.
Oh, that means so much. I love you.
You’re dating somebody, who is it?
You only watch what you eat when you’re afraid you might have to take your shirt off.
All right, fine, don’t tell us.
All right.
Bam. Thank you. What’s her name?
Well, that’s great, Raj. You must have so much in common.
How come you never eat broccoli?
Now, when he said make a baby, is it possible he meant out of Legos?
Could you two really have some sort of super-intelligent child?
Yeah, but that’s just his Earth parents. We don’t know anything about the ones that sent him here.
Ooh, Sheldon gonna get some.
So, were you turned on even a little bit?
Oh, I heard him interviewed on the radio. You know, when they told him he won, he didn’t believe it, but then he did believe it. It was so funny.
You know what, I’ve met Bert. Isn’t he an indicator of life on other planets?
It’s like scrolling through the emojis on my phone.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, angry?
I, I knew the answer. I got excited.
Well, and what happened to you?
This is getting old fast, Dolores, knock it off.
I do, your life is fine you big baby.
There you go.
There you go.
Aw, thank you.
What?
You liked my short hair, right?
Seriously, none of you liked it?
You know, how come nobody’s talking about Howard’s dopey haircut?
I think I hate all of you nerds.
I can’t believe you punched Bert.
Oh, wow, that doesn’t seem fair.
Oh, no, no, those hooks are gone.
Uh, we ran out of candy on Halloween, I was just giving everything away.
Amy wants me to have it.
But it’s a picture of you.
But you commissioned it.
But you like it so much.
I seem to be losing.
Why don’t you keep it?
Yeah, I don’t need anything around that I can stab myself with.
So if it breaks there’d be none of it?
Thank you.
Leonard.
Uh, hang on. I don’t think so, I’m clicking on one weird trick for a flat belly, but I’m still seeing celebrities who look like their pets.
Are you sure?
What a jerk.
Well, my go-to move is usually sleep with the person’s boyfriend, but I kind of feel like I’m already doing that.
I think I’m gonna go for a run, you want to come?
What, what are you doing in our apartment?
All right, Sheldon, this is over the line.
What do you think? Should we go to a hotel?
Okay, I’ll go to a hotel. Text me in the morning if you’re still alive.
We’re good, thank you.
Little lower to the left. A little more.
No, still hideous.
Yeah, you’d think that, but after a while it starts showing up in your dreams.
Sheldon, what took you so long?
Oh, that was fast. Did she sneeze the baby out?
Okay, well, we’ll talk to you guys later. Bye. She said not to come. It’s gonna be a while.
Well, it doesn’t matter. We’re not going to the hospital now.
Well while we’re all awake, why don’t we go to a diner or something?
Oh, my God. It’s your birthday. Let’s do something fun.
We could go to a bar.
Oh, of course. The annual birthday booty spectacular!
I’m sorry, and what flavour is your bubble gum cigar?
All right, well, you two go have fun.
Oh, you sexy, wheezy little man.
Well, I didn’t until I heard that.
Maybe if we’re quiet, he’ll go away.
Hey, Bernadette’s water broke.
Howard and Bernadette’s kid might be born on your birthday. How cool is that?
How many times do I have to say I’m sorry?
Okay, you don’t have to say struggling every time. You can just say actress.
You know, Raj, honey, you’re being too hard on yourself. When I first met you, you couldn’t even talk to women. I mean, you couldn’t even talk if one was in the room.
Anyone else want to try?
Hey, I bought M&Ms at the vending machine and two bags came out.
Here.
Oh!
Does the baby have a name yet?
– Oh.
Oh, look at all the babies.
Mm, that one kind of looks like Bernadette.
Hey, can you help me put some of the food out?
Yeah, but he doesn’t live here anymore.
Hi. Welcome back. How was Texas?
Well, you’re home now.
I told him to take it down. He would not listen to me.
So, what happened in Texas that was so bad?
Do boys have flowers?
Mm.
Oh, boy, I think it’s about to get bad.
What?
That’s too loud.
Hi. There’s the little family!
Mm.
Yeah. Go ahead.
Oh, it’s no problem, Amy and Sheldon were just telling us about their trip to Texas.
Stop. Okay. They told Mary they were living together, there was a fight, he got his feelings hurt, then he put underwear on his head.
Okay. Then what happened?
So tell me, how did Sheldon look with an earring?
Actually, we got in a pretty nasty fight.
To be fair, we may have been on edge because of the Christmas tree.
You do make a cute elf.
Hey, hey, I just found a farm where they let you chop down your own tree.
No, what’s stupid is a physicist who doesn’t understand when you swing an axe, you don’t let go.
Ugh. It’s 70 degrees, you didn’t need mittens.
Yes, yes, you bruise, you peel. It’s like I’m married to an old piece of fruit.
Fine.
Leonard?
There’s something on the windshield.
You need a break?
There’s no shame in asking for a break.
Ugh. Leonard?
There’s a tree on you.
Yeah, with gasoline and a match? Sure.
You poor things you must be exhausted.
So things started to turn around?
I can’t believe you fit in the crib.
Our pleasure.
What, what’s all this?
Oh, that is so thoughtful.
Yeah, i remember us driving up there, going to the winery and, that’s it.
Oh. Hey, what smells so good?
Pink wine and pizza bagels? It’s like eighth grade all over again. I am so lucky to have you.
Oh, you always know what not to say. I just, i can’t believe you did all this.
You did not just quote an Nsync song.
Oh.
I hadn’t really thought about it.
Hey, can I ask you a question? You’ve been married for a while, is it normal for the husband to kind of completely stop giving a crap?
Well, Leonard used to do all these things, like bring me flowers and wear pants.
Well, it’s not just the pants, it’s just, it’s like since we got married he doesn’t really try any more.
Hey.
Oh, it was fine.
Uh, chips.
Some wine.
Hm. At least he took an interest.
Nothing.
I don’t want to talk about it.
Fine. Lately I kind of feel like you’ve been taking me for granted.
It’s just, since we got married you seem to think you don’t have to try any more.
This is exactly why I didn’t want to talk about it.
Okay, you know what? Maybe I’ll take Amy with me to the spa this weekend instead.
All right, we’re heading out.
Thanks. Are you ready?
Let’s go.
When was the last time you got a massage?
Leonard stood on me once, too, but he was just trying to see the Rose Parade.
Well, yeah.
What are you doing here?
Okay. Leonard, I really appreciate that, but I need a little time to myself.
All right. Can you please just go and we’ll talk about this tomorrow?
I’m trying to figure it out.
Hey.
We’re not getting divorced.
Yeah. And there are a few things we need to stay on top of. So we thought it would useful, and I can’t believe I’m about to say this, um.
Although a rule about him texting me from in there might help with the romance.
Article 8, subsection B, Leonard will restrict videogaming in underpants to hours Penny is not home. This includes boxers, briefs, thongs, G-strings or anything else that calls attention to his pasty little thighs.
I think this all looks good.
Hey, boys. How’s it going?
No. No, you don’t, you really don’t. I actually can’t say don’t enough.
Wow, I find that hard to believe.
I take it back. I believe it.
Hey, can you hold off redoing the room? My brother’s coming out here in a few weeks.
My dad asked if I can get him a job interview at my work.
Well, I sell pharmaceuticals. That’s just a really hard to spell word for drugs.
I, I’m not sure. Maybe a few days. Unless he gets the job, then who knows?
You don’t have a problem with this, do you?
Okay. Thank you, you’re the best. Mm.
Hey, would you take a look at my brother’s résumé? I’m trying to help him clean it up a little.
He didn’t know it till he was cuffed, but yeah.
No, it’s my brother’s. I’m trying to help him get a job out here.
What? Are you really upset about Randall coming?
Leonard, if you’re mad about this, just tell me.
He’s my brother. I didn’t think I needed your permission.
Like you talked to me about your gaming room?
If you were this upset, why didn’t you say so when I told you?
Well, you sound like one now. I don’t see the big deal if my brother comes and stays for a while.
He would get his own place.
Yes.
It still counts. You know, how is this any different from you making me live with Sheldon?
You gave me a bill at the end of every month.
Look, we got really angry at each other, and you just got caught in the middle of it.
Yes, we’re fine.
Hopefully, he won’t be too upset.
He won’t be mad at me. I mean, you’re the one who doesn’t want my brother to come, so…
Oh, I’m gonna throw you so hard, I might actually win a stuffed animal.
So, did you wind up sending that machine back?
So, all we need to do is get Sheldon knocked up.
I can’t believe you have to fill out a preschool application for an infant.
All right, you know what you need? A night away from all of this. You know, where you can just kind of relax and, I’m just gonna turn this off. Much better. Seriously, let’s plan a night, you know, give you a break. We could go dancing.
Okay, that’s the one to beat.
All right. You guys ready to get crazy?
You know, if you pump at the bar, I promise we’ll get free drinks.
No. She’s busy. You call Howard.
Okay, stop that. No more preschool talk. Tonight is about having fun.
Okay, give. Can you guys handle this or not?
Sorry, guys. This club was so great, how could they turn it into a bookstore? I thought we got rid of all those.
Is everything okay?
Maybe we should just call it a night.
I’m just not really in the mood anymore.
I don’t know. This is all starting to feel like a sad attempt to recapture our youth.
Okay, maybe I’m the one who’s sad.
Maybe the fact that you went and had a baby.
No, of course not. I just, I didn’t think it would make me have all these feelings.
Pressure. I mean, she’s looking at preschools, she has a minivan, she has a 401K. Before she talked about it, I just thought that was a race.
I get that, okay? It’s just, Leonard and I have been married for two years, and we’re no further along than when we were dating.
Yeah, I guess I am making decent money.
Oh, that’s gonna make me cry.
Ew.
What is happening?
Aw, look at you watching sports.
Okay, I want in. Ten bucks says I’ll lose interest before that thing stops spinning.
Yeah, see, what’s happening here signals brain damage. My God, how long does this thing spin for?
You know, we could’ve come to you guys. You didn’t have to bring the baby here.
Yeah, until someone left him in the drugstore parking lot and he freaked out.
Oh, someone’s been shopping at Gucci.
That must’ve been expensive.
And if you really want to hurt him, I look great in Chanel.
Wait, Leonard, he’s hurting. Let him feel how he feels.
Yeah. Shoes, I’m a seven-and-a-half, boots, I’m an eight.
All right, how much exactly does he pay for?
Yeah, women do like a man that can support himself.
All right, hang on. We can figure this out. Let’s just go over your expenses. How much is your rent?
You don’t how much your rent is?
Yeah.
Well, sometimes you can get free food and Wi-Fi from the neighbours. Just know you might have to marry one of ’em.
Raj, if you need a place to stay, of course you are welcome here.
Okay, only if you’re sure. Whew.
Hi.
Oh, let me guess. You guys are drafting your fantasy accounting firms.
Well, he has a job. How bad can it be?
Wait, wait, not shopping for clothes, right? Because look.
Wait, wait, who’s gonna break it to the penguin?
Well, Leonard wants me to do more stuff like that with him, so I thought maybe this year I’d tag along.
So, do you want to come?
Please? I went to your boring thing last month.
Come on, even you checked your e-mail during the eulogy.
It’s not that I want to go, I just think it’ll make Leonard happy. And if I have to watch him squeeze into an Ewok costume, so be it.
Wow, that is a lot of people jammed in there.
Oh, you really sleep on the sidewalk, huh?
Well, you and I would get our own room, right?
Well, it’s no different than when Sheldon used to climb in bed with us during a thunderstorm.
You know, it’s no big deal. I can put up with anything for three days.
Are you kidding me?
I can’t, it’ll break his heart. You know, he’s always making an effort to do things with me he doesn’t enjoy, like going outside.
You know, maybe it won’t be that bad. Leonard says it’s really mainstream now. Comic books aren’t just for sad nerds any more. I mean, it is still a key part of their demographic.
Is there any scenario where we’re not in full body paint?
Hey, um, are you sure the guys are okay with me coming?
This is just something you usually do together, and if I’m screwing it up, I don’t have to go.
Why? Do you not want me to go?
Okay, good, ’cause that’s what I want, too.
Hey.
Hey, babe, you want to drive?
No, it’s fine, I know you don’t like the way I drive.
Just so you know, that guy in the parking lot hit me.
Just say you want to drive.
Amy, do us a favour, please drive.
It’s not complicated. Amy’s driving, that’s it.
You’re the one who seems upset.
Wait, you don’t want me to go?
I just thought it would make you happy.
Hold on, I’m trying to decide if I’m mad at you. No, I’m happy I don’t have to go.
Okay.
Hey, if you’re still looking to make money, I will pay you to burn that jacket.
Yeah, there’s room in the bed by Sheldon’s feet.
Really?
Ooh, how about white-water rafting?
What? Is it another video of him and his dog Lady-and-the-Tramping some spaghetti?
You’re a good friend.
You’re an even better husband.
Hey, pal, you want to live here or not?
What’s it for?
Yeah, it’s yours.
She’ll be in her crate, it’s not a big deal.
Well, it’s like that science thing. For every action, you have a gigantic and annoying reaction.
Mm-hmm.
Raj, you don’t have to serve us.
Hi.
Wait, is anything gonna jump out of that.
You didn’t do anything. It’s Sheldon.
So, relax. We’re happy to have you.
Do you actually pay for that haircut?
What are you talking about? We’re fine.
Yeah, this is a special circumstance.
Yeah, well, a circumstance can happen twice and still be special.
Are you kidding me?
Now you’re taking her side?
Morning.
What? Why?
I feel terrible.
Well, you’re the one worried having someone live with us is a sign of problems.
All right, so we’ll ask him to come back.
Don’t you want to get dressed first?
We’re so sorry if we made you feel uncomfortable. We really weren’t fighting about you.
More reasons for you to stay.
Then it’s settled.
Oh, that’s beautiful. What does it mean?
Yeah, I guess they don’t have Sanskrit for butts up and heads down.
Oh, right, sorry.
If you want, I can get ready in five minutes.
Yeah, bye, sweetie.
Yeah, yeah, bye, Leonard.
No, I was going to, but she called in sick. And guess who else called in sick.
Paul.
Oh, you met him at the office Christmas party. He’s married to Nancy.
I bet Jennifer gets a promotion out of this, which is so unfair because I work twice as hard as she does.
Well, I hope not. I just hate when people play those kinds of games.
Mm.
Okay, how is that?
Well, this is a moisturizing mask.
Hey, I hope you don’t mind, I used a little of your eye cream last night.
Don’t worry about it. Hey, after this, how about we all go out and do something together?
Ooh, yes. Fun.
I probably should have spit out my gum first.
Mm. Well, we’ve loved having you around. Right, sweetie? Leonard?
Yeah, that’s rude.
Well, sweetie, that’s crazy.
Well, why wouldn’t this be a safe place? I mean, he’s surrounded by his wife and one of his best friends.
Yeah, you’re right. You know, you’re really sensitive about this kind of stuff.
Yeah.
What?
Hey, Leonard, if you’re not busy tomorrow, I have to do a little reception after work.
Oh, are you sure? We’re celebrating our new ADD drug, and it’ll probably be over in, like, six minutes.
Hey, Raj, do you want to go with me tomorrow?
Uh-oh. Someone’s got two dates to the nerd prom.
Hey, since when do you do laundry on a Thursday?
You know, there was a time I would say what’s a soup sack? But I’m glad we’re past that. You know, there was a time I would say God bless you, and then you would say if you must invoke an imaginary deity, how about Thor? And I would say, how do you know I didn’t mean Thor? And then you would say Touché, and that there ends the tale of why I no longer say
Oh, yeah. So, Leonard tells me you’ve had a busy day.
Are you getting sick?
Well, you’re pretty delicate. Maybe you shouldn’t be pushing yourself so hard.
All right. Well, we’ll just pretend that you didn’t catch a cold watching Frozen.
You also got a nosebleed watching Up.
It’s nine o’clock.
I don’t know, check your body for tattoos?
Okay, it’s just a notebook, what’s the big deal?
Look, it’s got to be around here somewhere.
The notebook isn’t in the bathroom.
Well, people who are abducted by aliens lose time. I mean, maybe it happens to the aliens, too.
Oh, that, that’s so cool. How do you, how do you turn that thing off?
I don’t even run there, I drive.
Oh, wait. I remember.
Yes. Please find someone who cares.
Hey, I already set up Howard and Bernadette. It’s your turn to ruin some poor girl’s life.
So is this your first time dating a scientist? ‘Cause I’m thinking of starting a support group.
, Bert, you were telling us how you updated your profile?
Oh, is that offer for everybody?
Aw, that’s so weird.
You know, on our first date, Leonard used a coupon to buy me a pretzel.
The end.
I think it’s Bert.
Oh.
Bert, you’re a good guy, you deserve a woman who’s interested in more than just your money.
Look, sweetie, relationships aren’t about money, okay? It’s about respect and having things in common and… yes, Sheldon?
All that and he’s shorter than me.
I didn’t know you could drink while you’re breastfeeding.
Ooh. I’m gonna get another. You want food?
Oh, Zack. Hey.
Well, it’s a bar, so pretty good. Uh, what’s new?
Well, congratulations.
No, on, on getting engaged, good for you.
Yes, yes, he’s working for the government on an infinite persistence gyroscope. Of course, the first time I say it right, he’s not even here.
Uh, yeah, sure, I’ll check with Leonard.
Hey, you ready to go?
What’s the matter?
What? He loves you, okay? And he’s interested in your work. You could talk about the infinite perspective… I swear I know it.
Well, and his fiancée will be there, so you know, if the conversation lags, we can talk about their wedding.
Come on, I spent an entire plane ride with you talking about the trailer for Deadpool 2.
Hi. Hey, where’s your fiancée?
Oh, no, what happened?
Uh, it’s okay, I’m still in pharmaceutical sales.
Yeah, lying isn’t my favourite part of the job. Actually, I’m not crazy about a lot of it.
Oh, that’s a nice offer.
Right, ’cause it spells menu.
See, that wasn’t so bad. He even picked up the check.
Well, maybe, I mean, it seems kind of perfect. I have sales experience, and I’ve been a waitress, so I have restaurant experience, and if he’s figuring out my Christmas bonus, we could buy a boat.
You work with Sheldon, you tell me.
Okay, are you seriously jealous of me working with Zack?
Great, so you want me to stay at a job I’m not happy at?
You okay? You kind of look like Zack trying to figure out that tip.
So he’s my ex-boyfriend, who cares? I can’t believe Leonard would be so insecure.
And Zack’s engaged. Leonard has no reason to feel threatened.
What, you wouldn’t trust him?
Yeah, that, that is the sexiest dog.
‘Cause he’s scared of you?
Yeah.
Hey.
You want to talk?
Look, we can have a reasonable conversation and I won’t get mad. I don’t like it after sex, and I don’t like it now.
Yeah. All right, just come here. Look, I get me working with Zack is weird and I don’t want you to be uncomfortable.
Then what do we do?
No, I know you’ll try, but it’ll make you miserable, which will make me miserable, and I’m just gonna stay where I’m at for now.
You don’t need to do that, it’s okay.
Okay, are you sure about this?
Hey, uh, so I’ve been thinking about it and I want to take the job.
Oh, so there’s no job?
Okay, thanks anyway. Bye. Well, his fiancée thought the idea of us working together was stupid. You were right, I was wrong. Aren’t you gonna say anything?
Champagne, champagne.
And for the world’s tallest second grader, apple juice.
Oh, I’m sorry to hear that.
Um, well, I, yeah, you got me.
And when? But also where?
Okay, we’re just gonna circle back to when he’s moving out? Okay, that’s cool.
Good for you.
Oh, come on, he’s a grown man, he can take care of himself.
Once again, you got me.
Oh, hey, what’s going on?
What?
Amy’s got some news.
Oh, sweetie, you might not live that long.
Oh, stop it, he’ll be fine.
I mean, I like a little brown sugar.
Sorry.
Oh, come on. Look, if the roles were reversed, he’d be on the first train to New Jersey, or the second train if there were teenagers on the first one.
Well, what’s wrong with that?
And yet you bore his child. Neato.
Okay, a simple yes will do.
Okay, listen to me. Your relationship can handle being long distance for a while. It’s not like you two are very physical.
A lot of lectures?
Oh, we would love that.
I want to, but I don’t think I can.
Okay, I’m good now.
Not only did they eat together, Leonard said he made her laugh.
Did he Purell?
I cannot believe Leonard mentioned the Toblerone but left that part out.
I don’t know; we shouldn’t worry her if it’s nothing.
Yeah. Do you think living with Amy has somehow stirred up Sheldon’s sexual appetite?
All right, then we agree. He’s not making any moves, it’s this Dr. Ramona chick.
Really? All I got from Leonard was the Toblerone bar had nuts.
We thought you meant not letting him run out into traffic.
No. Come on, it’s Sheldon. Nothing is gonna happen.
Well, what do you want us to do?
Come on. Looks don’t matter to Sheldon. Because he only has eyes for you.
Thanks. I was scrambling.
Do you really think there’s reason to worry?
All right, well, that doesn’t prove anything.
The point is this could be nothing and we are all overreacting.
So, Sheldon, have you talked to Amy?
Okay, correct me if I’m wrong, but isn’t that exactly what we were supposed to stop from happening?
You got fingers and a mouth, you call her.
All right, this is making me crazy. Somebody’s got to go over there.
Will you go with me?
Sure.
We’ll all go.
Pardon. I just need to., yeah.
We need to talk.
Okay, I know you don’t have a lot of experience with women, but Ramona seems to have a romantic interest in you.
Well, sometimes women don’t care. Sometimes it makes them want a guy even more.
Okay. Um, let’s try this. Think of yourself as one of those limited edition toys people like to collect.
Well, then you get it.
Right.
Let’s forget the toy thing, okay? Um, maybe…
All right. What do you think is happening?
Don’t look at me like that, I tried.
