Once upon a time, an English journalist came to New York.
Elizabeth was attractive and bright.
Right away she hooked up with one of the city's typically eligible bachelors.
Tim was 42, a well-liked and respected investment banker who made about two million a year.
They met one evening, in typical New York fashion at a gallery opening.
It was love at first sight.
For two weeks they snuggled went to romantic restaurants had wonderful sex and shared their most intimate secrets.
One warm spring day he took her to a town house he saw in Sunday's New York Times.
That day, Tim popped the question.
On Tuesday, he called with some bad news.
When she hadn't heard from him for two weeks, she called.
He said he was up to his ears and that he'd call her the next day.
- She told me one day over coffee.
Then I realized no one had told her about the end of love in Manhattan.
Welcome to the age of "un-innocence.
" No one has breakfast at Tiffany's, and no one has affairs to remember.
Instead, we have breakfast at 7:00 a.m.
and affairs we try to forget as quickly as possible.
Self-protection and closing the deal are paramount.
Cupid has flown the co-op.
How the hell did we get into this mess? There are thousands, maybe tens of thousands of women like this in the city.
We all know them, and we all agree they're great.
They travel.
They pay taxes.
They'll spend $400 on a pair of Manolo Blahnik strappy sandals.
And they're alone.
It's like the riddle of the Sphinx.
Why are there so many great unmarried women and no great unmarried men? I explore these sorts of issues in my column and I have terrific sources: my friends.
Another 30-something birthday with a group of unmarried female friends.
We would all have preferred a nice celebratory conference call.
Samantha was a New York inspiration.
A public relations executive she routinely slept with good-looking guys in their 20s.
- Drew the sex god.
- Ladies, are we really that cynical? What about romance?
- No, no, no.
Believe me the right guy comes along, and you two here, this whole thing-- - right out the window.
So you think it's really possible to pull off this whole women-having-sex-like-men thing?
- You're obsessed with that movie.
Was it true? Were women in New York really giving up on love and throttling up on power? What a tempting thought.
Stanford Blatch was one of my closest friends.
He owned a talent agency and, at the moment, was down to a single client.
So, are you telling me that you're in love?
Don't you think that's a bit obsessive?
Stanford, he's an underwear model.
It was Kurt Harrington a mistake I made when I was 26 and 29 and 31.
What? Do you think I'm a masochist? - The man is scum.
Will you relax? I don't have a shred of feeling left.
Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to visit the ladies' room.
It was true.
I no longer felt a thing for Kurt.
After all these years, I finally saw him for what he was: a self-centered, withholding creep who was still the best sex I ever had in my life.
However, I did have a little experiment in mind.
Kurt. Wow. What are you doin' here?
- Thanks.
So, how's life?
You? Oh, you know, just writing the column.
The usual.
So, you seeing anyone special?
Oh, just a couple guys.
- Well, you look good, though.
So what are you doing later?
Who said anything about talking?
Alright. See ya there.
Oh, calm down.
It's research.
Oh, God.
Oh, Kurt.
Kurt was just like I remembered-- better-- because this time there would be none of that messy emotional attachment.
Oh, sorry.
I have to go back to work.
Oh, yeah. Completely.
But I'll give you a call.
Maybe we can do it again sometime.
As I began to get dressed, I realized that I'd done it.
I'd just had sex like a man.
I left feeling powerful, potent and incredibly alive.
I felt like I owned this city.
Nothing and no one could get in my way.
- Number one, he's very handsome.
Number two, he's not wearing a wedding ring.
Number three, he knows I carry textured Trojans with a reservoir tip.
Thanks a lot.
Later that night, Skipper met me for coffee and confessed a shocking intimate secret.
Thank you.
Really? I don't understand that.
You're such a nice guy.
Are you sure you're not gay?
Pussy?
They're too old for you.
Maybe.
- Maybe my friend Miranda.
Tomorrow night.
We're all going downtown to this club, Chaos.
Miranda was gonna hate Skipper.
She'd think he was mocking her with his sweet nature and decide he was an asshole the way she had decided all men were assholes.
- Hello? -
- Hey, sweetie.
With who?
Did I know him? He was one of the city's most notoriously "un-gettable" bachelors.
I didn't tell her about my afternoon of cheap and easy sex and how good it felt.
All right.
Fine.
Have a good time, and promise to tell me everything.
- All right.
Bye.
Friday night at Chaos.
It was just like that bar in "Cheers" where everybody knows your name except here they were likely to forget it five minutes later.
Hi.
Still, it was the creme de la creme of New York whipped into a frenzy.
Sometimes you got a souffle sometimes cottage cheese.
- I was about to rescue Skipper from an increasingly hopeless situation, when suddenly--
Well, I don't know if you're going to be getting that lucky.
- You were?
Yeah.
Right.
Sure.
I guess.
- So when I feel like it, I'll call you.
Right.
Yup.
I didn't understand.
Did all men secretly want their women promiscuous and emotionally detached? And if I was really having sex like a man, why didn't I feel more in control?
Hi.
No. I've never seen him in my life.
Samantha had the kind of deluded self-confidence that caused men like Ross Perot to run for president and it usually got her what she wanted.
And there she went-- off to take her best shot with Big.
Meanwhile, Charlotte York was having a splendid evening with Capote Duncan.
Though Charlotte was determined to play hard-to-get she didn't want to end the evening too abruptly.
Charlotte told me she thought she had played the entire evening flawlessly.
Back at Chaos things were swinging into high gear and Samantha was putting the moves on Big.
Meanwhile Skipper was hopelessly smitten with Miranda Hobbes.
Miranda told me later that she thought he was too nice but that she was willing to overlook one flaw and Capote Duncan found his fix for the night.
Taxi! Taxi! And so another Friday night in Manhattan crept towards dawn.
Just when I thought I would have to do the unspeakable-- walk home--
72nd Street and Third Avenue.
You mean besides going out every night?
Well, this is my work.
I'm sort of a sexual anthropologist.
No. I write a column called "Sex and the City.
" Right now I'm researching an article about women who have sex like men.
You know, they have sex and then afterwards they feel nothing.
- Well, aren't you?
Wow.
What's wrong with you?
Oh, yeah?
Suddenly I felt the wind knocked out of me.
I wanted to crawl under the covers and go right to sleep.
- Thanks for the ride.
Wait.
Have you ever been in love?
Last night my friend Miranda got invited to a dinner party by a man she hardly knew.
She was the date of Nick a fairly successful sports agent who once told her she had nice legs.
For a first date, Miranda felt like she was hitting it out of the ballpark.
They told Miranda that Nick had this thing for models.
They'd come to dinner push their food around and pout.
It got to be a problem.
They decided to take action.
Miranda confronted him, and it didn't take him long to fold.
Okay? You were on a date with a modelizer and you didn't even know it?
They're a step beyond womanizers who will sleep with just about anything in a skirt.
Modelizers are obsessed not with women, but with models who in most cities are safely confined to billboards and magazines but in Manhattan, actually run wild on the streets turning the city into a virtual Model Country Safari where men can pet the creatures in their natural habitat.
As if we didn't have enough problems.
There's nothing like raising the subject of models among four single women to spice up an otherwise dull Tuesday night.
- Except men think they're possible.
What are you talking about? Look at you two.
You're beautiful.
- Oh, come on.
What? Oh, come on.
I find it fascinating that four beautiful flesh and blood women could be intimidated by some unreal fantasy.
I mean, look.
Is this really intimidating to any of you? -
Suddenly I was interested.
If models could cause otherwise rational individuals to crumble in their presence, exactly how powerful was beauty? There are two types of guys that fall for beautiful women.
Barkley, a notorious modelizer was one of those SoHo wonders who maintained a fabulous lifestyle despite never having sold a single painting.
So you're saying it's easy to meet them?
- Things? You call them things? Yeah.
I couldn't believe it.
The man had slept with half the perfume ads in September's Vogue.
Do they know about this? Maybe.
I didn't know what to say.
There really wasn't anything to say except-- Do you have a light?
Later that day I was relieved to discover that at least one eligible bachelor got his kicks off the runway.
- That's great.
Why don't you call her? - You should call her.
Of course you are, Skipper
You're adorable.
- Right now, in front of you? - I can handle it.
Oh, it's her machine.
I believe there is a curse put on the head of anybody who tries to fix up their friends.
Where better to find modelizers in their natural habitat than a fashion show? Luckily, my friend Stanf ord Blatch had a client in the hottest show in town.
- Do you see him? - Right over there.
Derek, a.
k.
a.
"The Bone" was the world's biggest underwear model and Stanf ord's most important client as well as the subject of his single-minded obsession.
- Have you read it?
We'd better let you get dressed.
- We'll see you after the show.
" - Is he gay? - He denies it.
Samantha Jones never missed a major fashion show.She was one of the only people I knew who thought that proximity to beauty made her feel more attractive.
Hey, sweetie, what happened? You couldn't find seats right on the runway? Oh, you can see all the flaws from this angle.
Straight up.
God, no.He's a total modelizer.
Actually, he's sleeping with all of them in general.
Later that night we all went downtown f or a party.
I was beginning to float away on a sea of sweet potato puffs with smoked salmon and sour cream when-- It was Mr.
Big: major tycoon major dream boat, and majorly out of my league.
Hi.
- You did? - Yeah.
Cute?
Well, I'm working on a story about menwho date models.
- Any thoughts? -
Well, I'm discovering that some of them treat it as a competitive sport and others I think just need the validation.
And probably others just have a thing for exceptionally beautiful women.
I just think it might become a bit monotonous.
Puff? -
My cute stories?About half the time I'm at my apartment, and the other half I'm over at this coffee shop on 73rd and Madison.
- Hi.
You were great in the show.
Suddenly I felt like I was wearing patchouli in a room full of Chanel.
I thought I had come to terms with my looks the year I turned 30 when I realized that I no longer had the energy to be completely superficial.
- Why not? He has this thing for secretly taping his conquests.
As Samantha began to get ready for her close-up I felt it was time to call it a night.
I had never felt so invisible in my entire life.
Taxi! - Carrie.
Did Stanford leave?
I'm going home.
You wanna come home with me?
The things you gotta do in the name of research.
Shouldn't you be spending the night with some girl from the show?
I wondered if there wasn't some kind of physics for beauty.
Maybe two models repelled.
Maybe models could only be attracted to ordinary humans.
- Thanks.
That's the big trick.
Doesn't that seem like a waste of time?
- What's distracting you now?
Thanks a lot.
I hate my nose.
- Yeah.
I see what you mean.
Well, I think this might be it.
What do you want to be when you grow up?
I felt like I was in my bedroom when I was 16 and I used to hang out with this guy who was really beautiful and my parents thought I was helping him with his chemistry homework.
Sure.
We could do that.
It was hard to imagine that anyone so beautiful could ever be lonely.
Meanwhile, somewhere below 14th Street two ordinary joes were doing their own lonely late-night thing.
Miranda couldn't resist the vision of herself reflected in Skipper's slightly smudged lenses.
And Samantha found the ultimate validation: sex with Barkley.
Samantha demanded nothing less than the same consideration given every other model in town.
- Hi, Stanford.
- Hello.
I didn't.
We just talked.
I began to realize that being beautiful is like having a rent-controlled apartment overlooking the park: completely unfair and usually bestowed upon those who deserve it least.
What about them?
What an amazing observation.
See ya.
I take that back.
Beauty is fleeting but a rent-controlled apartment overlooking the park is forever.
One of the best things about living in a city like New York is leaving it.
My friend Patience and her husband invited me to the Hamptons for the weekend.
Patience and Peter were the perfect married couple.
They were fun, smart and they looked like they fell out of a J.
Crew catalog.
If their house wasn't right on the beach, I would have hated them.
So he gets in the cab and slides up next to me.
It is hot all the way from Houston and West Broadway to 72nd and Madison.
Hampton houseguests are always required to sing for their supper.
Brokers give investment advice.
Architects, design advice.
Single people give married friends tidbits from their sexual escapades.
The next morning I woke up feeling rested and fabulous.
I couldn't wait to go out and take in the spectacular view.
There he was-- full-frontal friend.
Good! He just stood there, casual, happy, hanging out.
- I didn't know what to do or say.
- Great! I only knew one thing-- that's way too much Peter before coffee.
- Hey.
So what's happening? I ran into Peter in the hallway without his underwear on.
P.
S.
Congratulations.
" Oh, yeah! The good muffins.
So what are we doing today? I barely had time to shove a "good muffin" in my purse before I was on my way back to New York.
I'm confused.
It didn't feel sexual.
Thank you very much.
- That'll do.
So I told her I didn't understand why she was so upset.
She said I couldn't understand it.
I'm single.
As the only single lawyer working at her law firm Miranda had given this topic some thought.
We can? And they're afraid we're gonna have it anytime, anywhere with their husbands.
Charlotte treated marriage like a sorority she was hoping to pledge.
Was Miranda right? Were we enemies? Is there a secret cold war between marrieds and singles? I love my single friends.
- Caftan? -
Aloha.
Oh, my God! Joe! It's been years.
I haven't seen you since you were-- Straight? I was gonna say in Miss Saigon.
Oh, this is my friend Stanford.
Oh, look at that.
- Congratulations.
I mean no! - Are you thinking what I'm thinking? - Perfect! - What? - Lou and I want to have a child.
I had just experienced single-bashing for the new millennium.
I was no longer considered a person.
I was now an egg farm.
Meanwhile, in a park downtown another single woman was about to be humiliated.
Miranda was obliged to attend her firm's annual softball game.
A law firm softball game is like any other except when a lawyer steals a base, he gets promoted.
Panicked at the idea of spending another firm function labeled as a leper Miranda had agreed to be fixed up on a blind date.
Brave Miranda marched right over and told Syd she wasn't.
They had a good laugh and decided to stay and play ball.
Miranda and Syd's last-inning double play got the attention of everyone even the firm's senior partner.
Later that night, Miranda gave me the lowdown on her day.
So you think it's just because they think you're in a couple? I know it.
" A lawyer named Chip.
Gotta love that.
So you're going to the dinner? Yup.
After Miranda left, I had a thought.
Maybe the cold war isn't about hate.
Maybe it's about fear, fear of the unknown.
Married people don't hate singles.
They just want us figured out.
I felt it was time to stop all the speculation and infiltrate the enemy camp.
Lunch with my favorite couple, David and Lisa.
Most of the time, yeah.
Then there are the other times.
Like family functions when you're the only one that's not married and they sit you at the kid's table.
Or when you two eat off the same fork, I just-- Oh, man, that's so sweet.
I'm beginning to think I may not be the marrying kind.
No sooner had the words come out of my mouth than I wondered if they were true.
Another time I hate being single is when married friends "surprise" fix you up.
Two espressos and a tiramisu later I had learned that Sean was the youngest of three brothers had his own investment firm and was about to move into an apartment he had just purchased.
Oh, please.I could smell it before you walked in the door.
That's great.
It was then I realized I was having coffee with the marrying guy.
That elusive and rare Manhattan man whose sights were set on marriage.
Over the next week and a half, I met Sean for a movie I met him for another movie and I helped him pick out a top of the line cheese grater at Williams-Sonoma.
-Sounds like fun.
He was like the flesh-and-blood equivalent of a DKNY dress.
You know it's not your style, but it's right there so you try it on anyway.
It was the night of the 12th.
On the East Side a pseudo-lesbian couple attended a right-wing Republican dinner party.
On the West Side, a trio of single gals went to a single guy's housewarming party.
Don't know.
I haven't met them yet.
He's just somebody I'm trying on.
All right.
Ready? Everywhere I looked, people were standing in twos.
It was like Noah's Upper West Side rent controlled ark.
Samantha gave me a look like I had sold her to the enemy for chocolate bars and nylons.
- This is for you.
As I moved through the married couples, I noticed something was different.
No fear, no pity, no pointing.
Were Sean's friends cold war conscientious objectors or was it just that I was "figured out"? My accountant says that it's best to go with low-risk stocks.
What do you think? Okay, I owe you.
I didn't know that all his buddies were gonna be married.
You're doing tequila shots? You see that buddy over there? I fucked him.
Maybe we should start tagging your married men and that way you can keep track of them.
- He is not.
I've been dating him a week and a half.
Some people read palms.
Charlotte read real estate.
An hour and a half into this housewarming I had gone from party guest to prisoner of war.
- You're not going anywhere without me.
Oh, God.
More friends.
Last time I saw Patience, she was shoving me on a bus.
Oh.
Well, listen.
About what happened at your beach house-- - Don't mention it.
This is my friend Patience, and this is her husband Peter.
Meanwhile, across town things were winding down.
As they rode between floors Miranda considered how much easier her life would be if she were in a couple.
Any couple.
While Miranda cursed her heterosexuality and wondered how much longer she could fight the war Charlotte cursed tequila and forced Samantha into a cab.
She decided Samantha was too drunk to get home alone and insisted she spend the night on her couch.
She got Samantha upstairs and safely to bed.
Or so she thought.
A couple of hours later, Samantha woke up still drunk and still single.
And single to Samantha meant one thing.
Look, Sean I don't think this is gonna work.
We want different things.
You obviously want to get married and I don't know what I want.
You know? See if it fit.
It doesn't.
I'm sorry.
I may know someone who's perfect for you.
Who? They started out casual-- a brunch here, a concert there.
But pretty soon they were visiting china.
Charlotte broke it off then and there.
It would never work.
He was American Classic; she was French Country.
As I sifted through the rubble of my marriage skirmish I had a thought.
Maybe the fight between marrieds and singles is like the war in Northern lreland.
We're all basically the same but somehow we wound up on different sides.
Sure, it'd be great to have that one special person to walk home with but sometimes there's nothing better than meeting your single girlfriends for a night at the movies.
Once upon a time in a kingdom far away a certain man and a slightly less certain woman kept bumping into one another.
They seemed to meet everywhere.
On street corners at parties.
It was almost as if they were dating accidentally.
And then, after another chance meeting at a wealthy lawyer's new son's Bris they decided to pick a time to bump into each other on purpose.
Saturday, 10:30.
The hottest new restaurant in Manhattan.
Samantha's P.
R.
firm was handling the opening.
Charlotte had a new boyfriend.
He had her big three: Iooks, manners, money.
Love and a commission.
She couldn't have been happier.
- It's official.
He's late.
He called it a thing.
He said, "Meet me-- Meet me for a drink thing.
" - He never used the "D" word.
- Let's hope so.
- I'm gonna go in.
Oh, something came up.
He's not gonna meet me.
Here, will you listen to this and tell me if you can figure out whether he's not meeting me as a date or as a friend.
Sometimes you need a second opinion with doctors, real estate, men.
How pathetic do I feel asking you if a guy kind of likes me? There you are.
Jon.
J-O-N.
No "H," no last name.
His blue crab strudel was so fabulous, he didn't need one.
Sam? Who's named Sam? Me.
Oh, good luck.
The bar is packed.
Twenty-something guys always know the really important "B" people.
Busboys, bouncers.
Plus, they have cute butts.
- Look at you.
Fabulous.
They liked each other immediately.
Do it over.
- It's you.
Well, your message said you weren't coming.
You're here, you have an hour.
Let's have a drink.
Men in their 40s are like the New York Times Sunday crossword puzzle: tricky, complicated and you're never really sure you've got the right answer.
Why not? A short cab ride later Samantha, Jon "no "H", Sam and l found ourselves at the nearby twenty-something club.
I can't believe you made Jon leave his own opening.
It was a tough town.
Hot places had the life span of a medfly.
Samantha, everybody in here is in their 20s.
As I glanced around the room, I was amazed at the wide variety of great twenty-something guys.
The groovy guy.
The corporate guy.
The jock guy.
The underage guy.
There you are.
Oh, here.
I'm not too heavy, am l? Right.
What's cuter than that? As we took a swig from our pony-necked beers I remembered another type of twenty-something guy.
So, what's it like to kiss with that thing in? The really good kisser guy.
- What's wrong? No, I mean, literally.
If you keep talking like that, I'm gonna charge you by the minute.
As I searched for my morning Marlboro Light Samantha proceeded to give me a rundown of her night with Jon-- no "H," no inhibitions.
- Him on his side? -
t's too early to remember.
We kissed.
We just kissed for five hours at the club, in front of the club, on the corner of the club.
I forgot how much fun it is to just kiss, you know even if I did only get two hours sleep.
As Samantha went on about her sexual escapades I glanced down at my arm.
There it was in Bic blue-- twenty-something Sam's phone number.
I had this sudden urge to call, but I'd just left him.
Hell, my lips were still swollen.
Why this sudden craving? Are men in their twenties the new designer drug? Yes, Samantha, Miranda and I were all recreational users but were we getting into something we couldn't handle? Okay, we were attracted to younger men for various reasons.
But I couldn't help but wonder: What do they see in us? Women in their thirties are just so grateful.
Later that week, Miranda and I compared notes.
Shouldn't we be dating men our own age? Good luck finding one.
Then what's really going on here? ls it younger men feel safer? What's really going on here is sex.
But I'm not having sex.
It's a kissing thing.
It's not like we're throwing out our schedules or anything.
- Oh, sweetie, I gotta go.
- Yeah? I'm late for a meeting with my editor.
Bye! I didn't wanna tell her I cancelled lunch with my editor to go to Banana Republic and help twenty-something Sam pick out a shirt.
Here.
As I helped him try them on, I thought "He's sweet, he's fun, and I think he likes me.
Could he be more than a fling? Could he be a potential boyfriend?" Please.
And speaking of potential boyfriends Iater that week the "crossword puzzle" asked me to meet him for a drink, blank.
Not quite a date, five letters, starts with a "T".
Whoever this is, I can't talk.
I'm late for a drink thing.
I just need five minutes.
- About what? - Well, last night after a movie, we're walking down Second Avenue and just passed-- Four minutes, Charlotte.
What did the perfect boyfriend ask?
Meet me in front of your apartment in ten minutes.
Okay, words are essential.
Tell me exactly how he worded it.
Okay, next stop is gonna be - 62nd and Madison? - We're picking up Miranda.
- Yes.
- And then we're picking up Samantha.
You need all the girl support you can get, and I'm late for drinks with Big.
Even in her state of abject blackness, Charlotte was a dating optimist.
- Don't scare her.
Sir, we're talking "up the butt.
" A cigarette is in order.
Well, I can't believe it.
Same time, same place.
Just you and me.
Oh, hi.
How are you? Marvelous.
There he was, right in the middle of my drink thing Mr.
Marvelous.
Why don't you two have a guy's night.
You know, talk, cry, shoot bear.
I'm way behind on my column anyway.
Here.
Next round on me.
We'll do our thing another time.
Abso-fucking-lutely.
I didn't know what I was supposed to feel.
Confused? Sad? Rejected? I decided to walk to clear my head.
Also, I just left my cab fare on the table.
So I walked.
I walked 48 blocks in four-hundred-dollar shoes.
I just needed something to take the edge off.
A little kiss to make me feel better.
But now, it wasn't working.
I wasn't getting the same rush.
Tonight, I needed more.
Meanwhile uptown, Charlotte wondered when relationships had gotten so complicated.
She yearned for the time when dinner was followed by dessert, not lubricant.
That night, they made love the Charlotte way-- polite and respectful on 300-count Egyptian cotton sheets.
Meanwhile downtown-- That was really great.
Samantha realized as long as she dated someone younger she would always be older.
She gave up twenty-somethings right then and there.
As Samantha went cold turkey I got in deeper and deeper.
- That was-- - Totally awesome.
I was hooked.
Gone.
Who cares about age, crossword puzzles the cab money I'd left on the table? This felt so good, I'd do anything to keep this high.
And just when I thought I couldn't get any higher he spooned me.
I woke up wanting more, or maybe not.
In the gray morning light, everything looked completely different.
Candles from Urban Outfitter, dirty laundry, a pizza box.
Suddenly, reality hit.
I'm in a twenty-something apartment.
- Good morning.
My father and my ex-girlfriend were, like, dead or something.
- Coffee.
I need coffee.
You don't have any coffee-- - You don't have any coffee filters.
That's all right.
You, coffee.
Me, bathroom.
Every fiber in my thirty-something being was screaming "Get out! You're too old for this.
" And just when I thought I couldn't sink any lower-- I need toilet paper!
I decided the only way to break free was to move from one addiction to an even bigger one.
Shoes.
A couple of blocks and way too much money later I realized I had just entered an interesting chapter in my life.
I had outgrown the boys of my past and not quite grown into the men of my future.
How are you?
Why is it in a city of ten million men you always see the one you don't want and never see the one you-- What are you doing down there?
Hinge.
- Your crossword puzzle.
"To bring together.
" Hinge.
Nice seeing you.
- Bye.
- I have no doubt.
I don't know.
Anywhere you want.
Call me.
As I walked away, I had a thought: Maybe all men are a drug.
Sometimes they bring you down and sometimes, like now, they get you so high.
Damn.
It would've been so cool if I hadn't looked back.
The most powerful woman in New York is not Tina Brown or Diane Sawyer or even Rosie O'Donnell.
It's the hostess at Balzac-- which had overnight become the only restaurant that mattered.
And we were there to celebrate the moment.
I think I'm gonna f aint.
Who are we?
- You must be joking.
Do you think I should make it a 50?
If I had $50 with me, do you think I'd give it to that girl?
- Oh, God.
Can we please talk about this over lunch somewhere else?
I know a great Thai place around the corner where the owner's son practically always sends over a complementary order of mee krob.
A short time later, Samantha headed back to her office while I decided to investigate this theory I had about shopping as a way to unleash the creative subconscious. to unleash the cre
All right.
I'm gonna take them.
I was already planning on returning them when--
- That won't be necessary.
- Oh, my God! I don't believe it! - When did you get to town? - Just yesterday.
- I can't let you do this.
Wow.
That's very nice of you, but I just can't accept these.
The truth was, we'd only met a f ew times.
Most people would classify Amalita as Eurotrash.
I thought she was fun.
- Don't you live in the city? - I'm a citizen of the world.
- I can't do this.
- Thank you.
While at home, all the English I seemed to encounter was "bills, bills, bills.
" I envied Amalita.
Her lif e was a blur of rich men, designer clothes and glamorous resorts.
She didn't actually work f or a living, yet possessed a dazzling sexual power that she exploited to her full advantage.
Which presented a certain conundrum.
Where's the line between prof essional girlfriend and just plain prof essional? Women have the right to use every means at their disposal to achieve power.
Saturday night.
In an eff ort to save money and maybe even pick up a f ew extra bucks I invited the girls over f or poker.
- I'm in f or three.
So you advocate a double standard.
Women can use their sexuality to get ahead whenever possible but men should not be allowed to take advantage of it? I'm just saying that men and women are equal-opportunity exploiters.
- What if you sense that someone is giving you a prof essional advantage because they find you charming? - Charming? - This I gotta hear.
Neville was making his yearly pilgrimage to Manhattan to check out what was new and hot on the art scene.
It was only a matter of moments bef ore he invited her to his f arm upstate to view his latest work.
- Hold his brush? If he so much as suggests what she's suggesting you give me a call and we'll sue the hell out of him.
He's like a sweet little seal pup.
Skipper, come in.
A couple of hours later, I was looking f orward to calling it an early night, when-- -
I'm getting ready to go to sleep.
I'd love to, but I'm really trying to cut back.
You know, pinch a f ew pennies.
But I rationalized that my new shoes shouldn't be punished just because I can't budget.
I don't need a list.
My friends are already in.
What? Oh, my God, it's gorgeous.
Sounds like a trendy sideshow act.
- Hello.
- How long are you here f or? -.
You're an architect and a comedian.
Nothing.
I'm just being un peu stupide.
I suddenly recalled my terrible weakness f or gorgeous French architects.
And what will the rest of you be having?
During the next couple of hours, I put my journalistic skills to good use.
I discovered that Gilles was recently divorced with a five-year-old daughter, Beatrice who lived with her mother in Paris.
He was passing through New York on his way to Brazil to supervise construction of a new hotel.
I think you are too beautiful to be a writer.
I think you're too charming to be an architect.
I thought you were spending the next six months in Brazil.
Don't tempt me.
I'm so broke these days I might take you up on that off er just to save on rent.
It's just, I have this little substance abuse problem.
Expensive f ootwear.
You really have that certain je ne sais quoi, don't you? Yes.
So, I'll see you tomorrow.
Sure, I saw some red flags-- divorced, French and almost uncomf ortably handsome-- but I f elt like I was floating on air.
The next morning I was brought back down to Earth as I confronted that eternal puzzle a closet full of clothes, nothing to wear.
Just a minute! Who is it? - Hey.
- Hey.
Skipper, come on in.
Keep going.
I have to get dressed, all right? Is it possible to be addicted to a person? The sex is so awesome that it's, like it's all I can think about.
Well, is that what she said?
Well, I have an idea.
Why don't the two of you just spend a night together and not have sex? That would be hard.
Well, I think it's really important that you try.
I began to f ear that Miranda's sexuality was overpowering poor Skipper.
Later I spent the most incredibly romantic afternoon with Gilles.
I f elt like I had landed in a Claude Lelouch film-- A Man and a Slightly Neurotic Woman.
Wait.
Wait.
I kind of have this rule.
I don't sleep with men I've only known a day.
I gave in.
After all, it was already tomorrow in Paris.
- Are you leaving so early? -
I'll get up.
- I can just get dressed.
Okay.
But he had left me a note with $1,000 in cash.
"Thanks f or the beautiful day.
Well, it was.
We had such a f antastic connection.
Then he leaves me money.
I don't understand.
What exactly about me screams "whore"? I just can't believe that you had dinner at Balzac.
This isn't right.
We're gonna pay f or all this ourselves, all right? He said order anything.
I don't know whether to take it as an incredible compliment or as an incredible insult.
I wouldn't know how to return it anyway because he didn't leave me his number.
She isn't a hooker.
She's-- She's like an international party girl.
I did allude to the f act that I was a bit cash poor these days.
I'm just gonna write the whole thing off as a bad date with a cash bonus.
As I struggled with the dilemma of how to manage my newf ound money Charlotte arrived at the secluded Connecticut home of the painter Neville Morgan in an attempt to secure his latest work.
Charlotte hated the "C" word.
But Neville Morgan was not a man to be corrected.
As Charlotte pondered how f ar she would go f or her love of art and the gallery-- Another Saturday night.
With my hooker money still burning a hole in my pocket Samantha and I showed up at Balzac.
She reasoned that since I was there once I was as good as in.
I'm sorry.
I'm hungry.
I'm going to go to the bathroom, and then we're leaving, all right? Come here! They all looked so chic and glamorous.
Part of me wanted to grab Samantha and make a run f or it.
- While another part-- -
Hi.
I've never been to Venice.
Really? I heard it was sinking.
I couldn't say I wasn't tempted.
I realized that I could leverage myself Iike the human equivalent of a sexy junk bond.
I'd parlay that $1,000 into a trip to Venice into a nice piece of jewelry a rich husband, f ollowed by a richer divorce.
I'm sorry.
I'm gonna have to say good-bye.
I'm here with a friend.
She's waiting f or me at the bar.
Just because Venice was sinking didn't mean my morals had to go down with it.
And as f or Gilles and the $1,000 I figured there was nothing to be done.
For better or worse, I had just established my rate f or a one-night stand.
And then the most powerful woman in Manhattan asked me f or a f avor.
Of course.Oh! Sure.
I never told Samantha the source of my newf ound power but from that moment on, we never had a problem getting a table at Balzac again.
A couple of weeks later, we were all there to celebrate Charlotte's coup.
It's this, right? Really? They say a picture is worth a thousand words but in this case I was speechless.
Two weeks ago, I had my picture taken.
It was a promotional photo for my column scheduled to run on the side of a bus.
I had misgivings which were somewhat mollified when they told me I could keep the dress.
Friday night.
In lieu of any actual social life of their own Samantha, Miranda and Charlotte had all stopped by to live vicariously through my first official date with Mr.
Big.
- Come on.
It's our first date.
- That's right.
I'm just the trailer.
- You've gone up.
- Third date.
Well, there is something to be said for restraint.
All right.
Well, ladies, I'm just going to dinner.
- Good night.
The truth is, I was dying to sleep with him but isn't delayed gratification the definition of maturity?
- Meaning? -
So am l.
I can't be hemmed in by rules.
I go with my emotions.
Some of the greatest romances of all time began with sex on the first date.
I bet.
I will not be the first one to speak.
And if he never calls me again, I'll always think of him fondly as an asshole.
That was really-- I mean, can you believe we-- on the first date? I mean, I didn't plan that, you know? l-- - What do you think? -
Big discovered my weakness for great sex and greasy Chinese? Or was going out to dinner simply a diversionary tactic to keep me from spending the night? Before I was able to completely indulge my paranoia it was my pal Mike Singer.
We've known each other for ten years but never had sex because we want to know each other f or another ten years.
I'm with-- I'll tell you later.
- Not too naked? -
Hi.
I'm Carrie Bradshaw.
I'm an old friend of Mike's.
Great.
Well, have a good dinner.
Nice to meet you.
I left the table wondering why Mike didn't want to introduce me to his date.
Again! That very same night, something absolutely amazing happened to Miranda.
His name was Ted Baker.
He was 32, a sports medicine doctor with an apartment overlooking the Natural History Museum.
Three prior serious relationships, none resulting in marriage.
- That's fantastic.
No.
Too quick is sleeping with him on the first date.
That's too quick.
I don't blame myself.
I blame the dress.
The dress.
The dress led me on, had a lif e of its own.
Then we went to this Chinese restaurant, and you'll never guess who I ran into.
- Mike Singer out on a date.
I'm not sure.
I don't know.
He was acting very weird, like he-- Iike he didn't want me to meet her.
Her name was Libby Biyalick.
Mike told me everything that afternoon while I helped him pick out sheets at Bed, Bath & Beyond.
So how long have you been seeing her?
- Why? ls she married? -
- Is she a cousin? -
Why not? It was about three months ago.
Mike had been dumped by Fiona Brooks, a cellist for the Philharmonic who he was trying to forget as quickly as possible.
They had both loved to cook, and shopping was a Saturday morning ritual.
So he was feeling particularly vulnerable when--
Mike found himself very uninhibited.
Since he didn't think Libby was that gorgeous there wasn't any pressure.
The next morning, he woke up and felt at ease very relaxed.
She was one of the only women he'd ever met who he felt he could just be with.
So what's the problem? x
What are you afraid of? What are other people going to think? All I know is that she's not the right woman for me in the larger sense so I keep her a secret.
I couldn't decide whether Mike was being shallow or honest but the question nagged me for days.
Yeah.
He was-- He turned out to be in high school.
Evidently, Samantha had had lots of sex none of which was secret.
Here it is.
Up here.
Naked.
- There it was-- the dress that led me down the garden path with Mr.
Big.
- I shouldn't be embarrassed? -
Yeah.
You would say that.
You're a publicist.
- No.
I don't think so.
I haven't heard from him since we spent the night together.
Samantha had a particular knack for turning a desperate situation into a hopeless one.
I'm sorry.
It's my fault.
Evidently, Charlotte had seen Shmuel's work in an exhibition and scheduled an appointment to meet him at his studio.
Charlotte quickly became intoxicated by his talent his strangeness and the smell of his wool.
It was so sexy, so forbidden.
Daddy's little Episcopalian princess in the arms of one of God's chosen people.
Why didn't you introduce him to anybody?
- I promise.
Was secret sex the ultimate form of intimacy since it existed in a pure state exempt from the judgment of the world? Or is it just another way in which we deny our feelings and emotionally compartmentalize our lives? -
Hello? - - -
Who is this?
Great.
Fantastic, actually.
And you?
I adore trite.
Just as long as we don't skip dinner.
What a relief! I had just escaped the "sex on the first date" curse.
That weekend, I was out with a man whose name I wanted to shout from the rooftops.
The M2.Goes right down Fifth.
- I'm getting together a group of my friends tomorrow afternoon to watch it go by.
I thought maybe if you weren't doing anything--
- Who was that? - Just some guy I skied with in Aspen.
I didn't understand.
Had I suddenly become the invisible woman? I tried not to let it bother me.
I also tried not to let it bother me that he took me back to Fung Wa scene of our postcoital dinner.
Oh, no.
I wanted to introduce you to some of my friends.
As I surveyed the room I realized it smelled like a cheap date you don't want anyone to meet.
I told Mr.
Big I was on a deadline and I had to get home.
- Hello? - Listen.
I have a question.
Of all the restaurants in Manhattan, why did you take Libby to Fung Wa?.
You mean it's the kind of place men take women they don't want to be seen with in public? Yes.
- The evidence was mounting.
Was it possible that I had become Mr.
Big's secret sex girl? The next morning, Miranda discovered a shocking sex secret of her own.
She had just spent a wonderful night with Ted who had to leave early in the morning to catch a flight to D.
C.
for a conference.
Miranda waited for the dead bolt to drop and then used the opportunity to ransack Ted's apartment and look for pictures of old girlfriends.
She was not at all prepared for what she found.
How can you judge him till you spank him? - I'm only kidding.
- But obviously this is what he's into.
Maybe it's just his fantasy life.
Later that day, the cream of New York gathered to toast the maiden voyage of my bus.
Big? - He couldn't make it.
It was a work thing.
What? He's not here because I slept with him on the first date? Yes.
- I didn't want to admit she was right.
Here it comes! I just wanted to see my bus and get the hell out of there.
Oh, shit.
No.
I thought you were going to bring Libby.
Why?
I'm sorry.
Meanwhile, Miranda spent another wonderful evening with Ted and began to reevaluate her options.
Ted didn't take Miranda home that night.
He never took her calls or returned her messages.
and she never saw him at the gym again.
Very late that night, fueled by a massive quantity of champagne I decided to say good-bye to Mr.
Big.
I just came here to tell you that if you're embarrassed or ashamed to be involved with me in any way that we can no longer see each other.
The truth is, I blame myself.
I wore the naked dress on our first date.
I slept with him too f ast and now I'm on a Fifth Avenue bus with a penis on my head.
ou won't introduce me to your friends.
You bring me back to that restaurant where men take women they don't want to be seen with.
You won't come out and meet my friends.
You have me in a niche.
Certain events.
Certain restaurants.
Certain people.
Like I'm only a particular fragment of the kind of person you think you should be dating.
No.
This is not me.
This is me reacting to your perception of me.
I should have been jumping f r joy, but I only felt a hard knot of fear.
So you and me-- then maybe this is for real?
The island of Manhattan is a cozy village populated by more than seven million fascinating individuals
… who all behave like they own the sidewalk but lately it seemed as if the entire city had been magically reduced to only two people... us. Four-hour conversations flew by in a space of fifteen minutes and a few days apart felt like weeks, I realized that Einstein's law of relativity would have to be amended to include a special set of rules, those to explain the peculiar effects of infatuation.
Hello?
Yeah, good morning.
God, I can't believe it's been that long, I've been meaning to call you. I've just been…
Well, yeah, that's the least of it. You know what, I don't think that I have been hit this hard since...nah you know what, I'm not going to compare it to anything else because everything else has always ended.
Yeah, absolutely, how about tonight?
Alright, so I'll call Charlotte and Samantha and see if they're free, ‘cause…Big’s got this dinner thing, so ya’ know, we didn’t have any plans anyway…
Yeah, I know, I've become one of those women we hate.
All right, bye.
As I hung up, I realized I'd committed the cardinal sin. I'd forsaken my girlfriends for my new boyfriend.
That night I faced the tribunal.
Miranda had worked on a big successful merger… Samantha was obsessed with the idea of a new apartment…And Charlotte, Charlotte was practically engaged. They met the day after I dropped off the edge of the earth… He's name was Michael Conway, he was from a good New York family and he absolutely adored Charlotte.
Last night after Michael took Charlotte to the Philharmonic, they went back to his place and began the classic dating ritual …the blowjob tug of war.
She'll juggle, she'll spin plates, but she won't give head.
Well, that’s just really a judgement call.
Well, that’s just bad behavior.
Well, it’s not my favorite thing on the menu but, you know, I’ll order it from time to time. And, with the right guy, it can be nice.
Well, sweetheart if you’re going to get all choked up about it…just don’t do it.
A few hours and a couple of bottles later, vows of friendship renewed, we were almost out the door when…
Yeah, I’m going to go over and say hi.
I’m not going to ditch you.
Surprise.
Good, good I was just out here, with my posse having dinner and …er…I saw you.
Can I talk to you for a second?
Excuse me.
Are you on a date?
I thought you said you had a business thing tonight.
Well, she’s stunning and I should know because frankly, she stunned me.
Well, uhm, enjoy your dinner.
Oh, sure, sure. I was just…er…You know I didn't realize you were dating other women.
Sure, sure, sure. So uhm then, enjoy your dinner. Oh already said that…enjoy it twice.
I can't believe it, he's seeing other women!
True, we had never discussed exclusivity. But while for me the idea of seeing another man would be like trying to fit another outfit into an already over-stuffed suitcase, Big was happily dating another woman like it was the most natural thing in the world. Is it that men have an innate aversion to monogamy, or is it more than that? I wondered in a city like New York, with it’s infinite possibilities, has monogamy become too much to expect?
Samantha didn’t believe in monogamy, especially when it came to Real Estate agents.
Although Pamela had the hottest contacts in town, Rick did have a slight competitive edge. He gave Samantha the opportunity to combine her two greatest loves… Sex and Real Estate.
That afternoon I dragged my poor, tortured soul out to lunch with Stanford Blach and attempted to stun it senseless with cosmopolitans.
Come on, you wouldn’t commit to a nice guy given the option?
You know what you are? You’re a whore.
Thanks.
Wow, what an honor.
You’re quite the storyteller, aren’t you?
I’ll do my best.
What was happening to me? I used to get a secret rush from men who hit on me during their fifteen minutes of fame, in this case it nearly felt exhausting.
Hello.
Oh, hi.
Yeah, of course we are. Why wouldn’t we be?
I was striving for not coming over but I was worried I had just bordered on shrill.
uhm, yeah, it’s fine.
Yeah, me too.
There were so many questions I wanted him to answer but would not ask. Not tonight at least, no, tonight I would ask Miranda.
He said, I miss you baby. Do you think that was meant to be some kind of coated ¨mea culpa¨?
Yeah, exactly.
Oh no, ‘cause that would mean that everything he ever said that I interpreted as sincere, was said to interpretation. In that case what I perceive as his feelings for me may only really be reflected rejections of my feelings for him.
Oh god, I’m freaking. I gotta stop.
Just, hanging.
Hello.
I think that was Skipper’s new girlfriend. Well, she seems alright.
Well, that’s true Miranda you’re his type but you broke up with him, remember?
As Skipper re-dedicated his singular affection for Miranda, Charlotte was receiving her own declaration of monogamy.
And while Charlotte embraced fidelity and Samantha flaunted her infidelity. I found myself caught somewhere in between.
So, whose very part of the apartment.
Internationally I would imagine.
Actually, it’s Carrie.
Are we dating? I thought we were just sleeping together.
How many women are you dating?
Well, let’s see there’s me, Julia, oh, and let’s not forget international Melissa
I don’t know.
What do I want from you? Nothing, I don’t want anything from you.
I felt like a fool I had gone so far out on a limb with my feelings that I didn’t realize I was standing out there alone. When life gets this confusing, sometimes there’s only one thing to do… Attend a fabulous party.
Hey Stanford.
Don’t ask..
He became predictable.
Hey, Jared.
Cosmopolitan.
In a room where everyone was gorgeous, cool and under thirty… monogamy suddenly began to seem like a quaint notion.
While Miranda misjudged the intensity of Skipper’s feelings, Michael left Charlotte no doubt about his.
Michael was upset but butterscotch seemed pleased, she was finally back in her monogamous relationship. Half past midnight in a city that never sleeps, neither did the Real Estate market.
2 am and I already have a new man in my life.
I thought it was the fact that you could behave like an utter asshole and people would find you amusing.
Give me a minute; I just have to make a call.
I just had to let you know that I’m at this very cool party for very cool people under thirty and this very cool novelist wants to take me home.
His name is Jared, he’s really cute and really successful and he just put his arms around me. Here, say hello, Jared.
That was Jared.
No, you get over here.
I’m at the Lennard Park Café, meet me up front. Your name is not on the list.
Forty-five minutes later I realized I was alone in a park at 03
This is the front.
You see those doors? That’s the front, you were waiting at the street entrance.
Depending on where you’re coming from.
I’ve done the merry-go-round, I’ve been through the revolving door, I feel like I met somebody I can stand still with for a minute and … Don’t you want to stand still with me?
Yes.
In a city of infinite options sometimes there’s no better feeling than knowing you already have one.
Once upon a time in a magical land called Manhattan a young woman fell in love.
Charlotte and Jack locked eyes at a black-tie benefit for Epstein-Barr.
She chased him through every disease in New York.
They've been officially dating since retinitis pigmentosis.
Jack was perfect for her.
Architect, philanthropist and the sex was amazing.
Late one night, Jack popped the inevitable question.
The closest Charlotte had ever come to getting screwed on a plane was the time she lost all her luggage on a flight to Palm Beach.
- Any sex, period.
- The pinch hitter.
- I've never done a threesome.
Gee, I'm flattered.
But I'd go with someone who has a little more experience, like Sam.
Was Samantha right? Were threesomes the new sexual frontier? No question.
Guys were infatuated with threesomes.
And when I started looking, they were everywhere.
After all, our lives are built on threesomes.
Fat, low-fat, nonfat.
First, business, economy.
Moe, Larry, Curly.
Maybe we were never meant to do it with only one other person.
Maybe threesomes were the relationship of the future.
Meanwhile, Samantha had been busy guest-starring in a show I like to call "Sam Does the Married Guy.
Ken was 37, a wine importer unhappily married to a woman who designed modular office furniture.
This affair was the most exciting thing that had happened to him since the '94 Montrachet.
Five hours later, Charlotte's night was just beginning.
She and Jack had just had another fantastic date dancing for dyslexia.
Who knows whether it was her vodka or her vibe but Charlotte suddenly did feel a little warm.
That night she had an eye-opening experience.
Charlotte hadn't been that excited since she tried on her cheerleading uniform.
Across town, Miranda was dealing with her own nightmare.
That's some dream.
- That's great.
Dreams are a good way to experiment.
It's like buying a dress and keeping the tags on.
Tell him they make a cream for that.
It's your call, but don't do it just to make Jack happy.
Isn't it weird that you're thinking of sleeping with someone you don't know to get closer to Jack?
That was the thing about Charlotte. Just as you were about to write her off as a Park Avenue Pollyanna she'd say something so right on, you'd think she was the Dalai Lama.
And then, she'd say something else.
But the bigger question remained.
If Charlotte was actually considering a threesome, who wasn't? The Village Voice had more ads looking for threesomes than it did for small, rat-infested studios running at $1000 a month.
But who actually answered these ads?
I seem to be the only person in New York who still believed in the one-on-one relationship.
Big and I were actually doing sleep-overs.
Which one?
Why is it that putting a tie around a man's neck is sometimes even sexier than taking it off?
No.
Sorry, I can't.
- I have to interview someone.
Threesomes.
Ever done one?
With who?
My ex-wife.
Suddenly my column was the last thing on my mind.
You were married?
No, you didn't.
And they had wild sex.
Threesomes.
We don't have wild sex.
We used to, but now we have sweet sex.
Wild always beats out sweet.
- Because they stopped having wild sex.
- Should that make me feel better?
Sounds like you're selling toilet bowl cleaner.
You had to hand it to Miranda. She was determined.
It's a little orange.
What? Leave him before he leaves me?
Charlotte was right.
We don't really know the people we sleep with.
After all, what did I really know about Mr.
Big? Except he had an ex-wife named Barbara, who, I discovered, worked in publishing.
My plan was simple.
I'd pitch her a steamy, bodice-ripping paperback which she'd probably reject but at least I'd get five minutes face-to-face with her.
Good taste and beautiful.
Could it get worse? Oh.
Special Olympics chairwoman.
Well, who doesn't love children's books? Five minutes of bodice-ripping material out the window.
So I did what any writer would do.
I pulled an idea out of my ass.
Well, my story is about a little girl named Cathy, Little Cathy.
Well, she's got these magic cigarettes.
- Yes.
Little Cathy and her magic cigarettes.
Whenever she lights up, she can go anywhere in the whole wide world.
Arabia, New Jersey.
I mean, that stuff is gonna be all worked out, of course.
It's a children's book for adults.
I thought you might.
It was the last straw.
She was smart, beautiful, and she got me.
I'd have to kill her.
Meanwhile, Samantha was about to have her own encounter with the third kind.
That afternoon was a first for Samantha.
She successfully screwed a guy in under two minutes.
The more Miranda analyzed, the worse her nightmares got.
I take that as a no.
That night I thought I could put the whole Barbara thing out of my mind.
After all, Mr.
Big was with me now.
So I guess you couldn't avoid a threesome because even if you're the only person in the bed someone has always been there before you.
I was preoccupied.
Your ex-wife's breasts, your ex-wife's lips your ex-wife's long legs. My column.
What happened?
What Mr.
Big didn't realize was the past was sleeping right next to me.
The next day, the flesh-and-blood Barbara asked me to lunch.
Hi.
Thanks for inviting me.
Oh.
Well, thanks.
- I'm back with Mr.
Big?
Yeah, fuck 'em.
Friends? Two hours and four chardonnays later, I was sleeping with the enemy.
- So, never been married?
Really? What happened?
No one special.
For Samantha, the shit was about to hit the phone.
Sam's "no muss, no fuss" affair was starting to feel very mussy.
Samantha was a guest star.
Series regular was not in her contract.
That night at the Attention Deficit Disorder Masked Ball Charlotte felt free to indulge her fantasy.
It's amazing what sequins on a stick can do to free up inhibitions.
Then Charlotte did the unthinkable.
She realized that this was her moment. If she was going to take the plunge, it was now or never.
Unfortunately, it was Jack who plunged first.
Apparently someone else's fire was a little stronger than Charlotte's.
She was not the guest star in this fantasy.
Meanwhile, at a bar downtown.
That night, Miranda finally got her validation.
Her shrink had suggested she come three times a week.
I didn't see Mr.
Big for eight days.
- Yeah, it was.
Look, you tell me you have an ex-wife. You tell me you guys had a three-way.
Yes, I asked.
You drop this big bomb, and you don't give me any details.
- I cheated on her.
- I know.
She told me at lunch.
- She told you?
That's another thing.
You didn't tell me that you're still talking to her.
I still talk to all my ex-wives.
I'm so not finding that funny.
Then it was just the two of us. And I realized the real appeal of the threesome: It was easy.
It's intimacy that's the bitch.
In a city of perfect people...
no one was more perfect than Brooke.
She was an interior designer who only dated A-list guys.
For Brooke, every Saturday night was like the senior prom.
So, when she got married...
we were all dying to see which one had made the cut.
Was I the only one who remembered that Brooke once described this man...
as more boring than exposed brick?
It was your average $100,000 wedding.
Investment bankers and the women who hate them...
classmates from Steiner, Dalton and Brown...
and us.
We looked like The Witches of Eastwick.
A wedding this size always has two singles tables.
We were at the other one.
It was the Turtle. A Manhattan legend known for two things:
good investments and bad breath.
- Here, sit down.
Two hours later, we were bored.
Supplies were dwindling...
and one of our passengers had jumped ship.
People are always telling me things I don't want to hear.
But this one crossed the line.
Did I wake you?
- Question.
- Why did you get married?
That is so sweet.
-Now you're just a fool.
Suddenly, I had to concentrate on breathing.
- Are you in bed with someone?
Just three slices of wedding cake. You jealous?
- Good night.
I hung up the phone wondering...
could I date a man who would never get married?
Maybe this wasn't my target audience.
I wasn't thinking about marriage until he told me to think about it. Now it's all I think about.
- I can't just ignore it, can l?
I'm not gonna replace a man with some battery-operated device.
That night, Samantha went on a date with a flesh and blood man...
while the three of us went in search of furrier companionship.
$92?
It's even got a remote. How lazy do you have to be?
Later that night, back at the brier patch--
Hello?
- Yeah.
Jerry, who Samantha met at Brooke's wedding...
took her to Lava, New York's restaurant du jour.
Ten minutes and a couple of cocktails later--
He obviously had seen something else he liked and gone after it.
Then, just when she thought her evening couldn't get any worse--
What Samantha needed now more than anything was a compliment from anyone.
Samantha was impressed. The Turtle had attempted a joke.
Sweetheart, he's a man, not a brownstone.
Samantha and the Turtle?
But then again, I'm dating a man who will never get married...
and Miranda is having a meaningful relationship with something that comes in a box from Japan.
In a city of great expectations, is it time to settle for what you can get?
I needed some answers.
Later that week, I met Brooke.
Just back from her honeymoon, she was all business: the business of marriage.
So, how is it being married?
- And that's a good thing.
It just means you're happy with Allen, right?
Then I'm happy for you.
Listen, I hope I didn't give you the wrong idea.
I think Allen's great.
I mean, he's incredibly successful.
I couldn't believe it.
It was the Turtle wearing Helmut Lange.
He twirls!
Samantha left with the Turtle, Brooke left with a better gift...
and I left wondering if everyone in Manhattan was settling.
My Zen teacher once told me that there was nothing like yoga to quiet a busy mind.
Just as I had reached the moment of no thought--
- Sorry. Am I pulling too hard?
- So you've been using it!
Why?
Come?
It's not illegal.
Well, you know. You could still enjoy sex with a man and the Rabbit.
- Why?
Charlotte could never tell a decent lie.
I knew an addict when I saw one.
I love Sleeping Beauty! The music, the sex, the costumes!
It's so romantic!
I invited Stanford to the ballet. I knew he was available.
Stanford, cute, huh?
Evidently Stanford, tired of bars and blind dates...
decided to place a personal ad.
He scheduled a rendezvous with the only respondent on a cold, Sunday afternoon.
Twenty minutes and three false alarms later, he was ready to call it quits.
I don't know. You look pretty gay to me.
Come on, maybe it's just a phase.
Sometimes I think I should just marry a woman and get all the money.
- What is there, a cash prize?
- She doesn't know you're gay?
Really? That's funny. Big doesn't believe in marriage.
Maybe you should propose to me, and we'll all live happily ever after.
-I don't know. Maybe nobody gets it all.
- Actually, I was kidding.
Now you're talking!
Friday night at the ballet with a man who shared my passion for hot men in tights.
Saturday afternoon in bed with a man who shared my passion for passion.
Maybe there was such a thing as having it all.
Oh, I got a marriage proposal last night.
A very handsome, witty young man about to come into his inheritance.
Actually his name is Stanford. Stanford Blatch.
He is.
I have you.
The more he mocked me, the more convinced I became that this idea was genius.
That night, Miranda and I had plans to join Charlotte...
for a gallery opening in Chelsea when--
- Hello?
Wiped out!
That was Charlotte speak for "I'm spending the night with my vibrator."
There was only one thing to do.
A rabbit intervention.
Come on, let's go!
- Okay, where is it?
Hey, it's a vibrator. It's not like it's crack.
Charlotte, you hid the Rabbit behind a stuffed rabbit? That is so you.
With a little help from her friends, Charlotte decided
that she wasn't going to settle for herself.
While Samantha was doing everything in her power to remake the Turtle
into a man she could fall in love with.
It was then that Samantha realized that even with all her effort,
he was still just the Turtle in black.
After 12 phone calls and three e-mails...
Stanford badgered me into at least meeting his grandmother.
I love that suit you're wearing.
- Seriously?
- Never.
Yes, I have a column in The Star.
Oh, wow! ls this you?
She does.
Oh, my God! This has to be Stanford.
- You're the same person.
Come on. This is fun. I had no idea you had such a big family.
As I looked around at all the memorabilia and family photographs...
the faces of brides and grooms, children and grandchildren...
I realized--
Yes, I do.
I realized then that the only inheritance Stanford was going to get from his grandmother...
was her collection of Chanel suits.
That night at dinner, I knew I would have to break the news to Big.
I do want to get married someday.
Maybe not today.
But I don't want... I can't date somebody that won't. What's the point?
It's bitter, but it definitely has possibilities.
My Zen teacher also said the only way to true happiness...
is to live in the moment and not worry about the future.
Of course, he died penniless and single.
Let's be honest.
Sometimes there is nothing harder in life than being happy for somebody else.
Like lottery winners or extremely successful people who are 27.
Then there's that hell on Earth...
that only your closest friends can inflict on you--
the baby shower.
Exactly. Why can't she just use sex and a nice cocktail like the rest of us?
Can I ask you, would any baby shower bother you...
or is this one worse because it's Laney's?
Laney Berlin. You can't really describe her.
You just had to know her.
Chances are eight years ago you probably did.
Isn't that how you got the couch from me?
Laney did A&R for a record label...
or, as she used to call it, sex with an expense account.
Every time she went on a scouting trip, she came back with some hot new group...
and a gynecological condition no one had ever heard of.
Samantha and Laney had a long-standing rivalry.
Both wild, both sexy...
both incredibly insecure.
Two years ago, Laney did the most shocking thing of all.
She met a Wall Street investment banker, married him...
and moved to Connecticut.
That wasn't supposed to happen.
She was supposed to have sex with Sid Vicious and move to heroin.
- Lyme disease?
- A cult? What are you talking about?
I think we should go. It's the right thing to do.
Okay. You're driving down the road. You see a sign.
It says "two-headed snake." You pull over.
Wild Laney is having a baby shower. You pull over.
As I penciled in the date, I noticed something missing.
In between the Versace show and dinner at Moomba...
there it wasn't--
my period, four days late.
That Saturday, also known as "Seven Days Late"...
four city girls set off to visit the country mice.
Are we there yet?
Hey, nice outfit. Is there gonna be some belly dancing at the shower?
Oh, shit! I totally spaced. I forgot to buy her a present.
How tacky is it to give the mother-to-be a fistful of cash?
You bought a pregnant woman a bottle of Scotch?
- What did you get her?
- Seriously, what did you get her?
- I'm putting my name on that card.
As I turned the midsize coupe onto Hollyhock Lane...
I was struck by how a place so filled with nature...
could look so unnatural.
Oh, Toto, I don't think we're in Manhattan anymore.
Ready, girls?
Let's go.
Charlotte sweetie, don't forget our gift.
We got lost. We took the wrong bridge.
Thirty years from now, what do you think the chances are...
that some woman's gonna be able to make Andy happy?
As I watched Laney tear open a terry cloth baby bib...
with the same enthusiasm she once reserved...
for tearing off rock stars' pants...
I couldn't help but wonder...
"Was I next?"
You know what? I have to pee.
The truth is, I needed to escape.
The party had turned into a preview...
a preview of a life I didn't know if I was ready for.
Even seven months pregnant, Laney couldn't keep her clothes on.
Clearly, a part of the old Laney had survived.
But I wondered, what was still buried...
deep inside the mommies downstairs?
There's a woman in there breast-feeding a child who can chew steak.
A complete lie. She remembered. We all remembered.
Charlotte had made us all swear never to use it.
Beers and bar nuts at Flanagan's off Route Five...
were the perfect antidote to Laney's House of Humiliation.
Oh, Charlotte, come on. You're still young. You have plenty of time to have children.
Oh, come on, guys. It doesn't have to be like that.
You don't have to lose yourself to have a kid.
I know plenty of cool, hip mothers...
who live in the city and still have great careers and stuff.
I'm late. I missed my period.
I don't know, just a few-- Seven days.
- Really? Were you having sex?
I am not going to tell him until I know what l--
till I know how l-- what--
No, I am not going to tell him...
until I know how to finish this sentence.
That night, Charlotte got out her wish box...
where she kept reminders of all the things she hoped for in life--
a gift for Shayla...
a town house in the city...
a beach house in East Hampton...
her dream man...
her backup dream man.
It's very strange when the life you never had flashes before your eyes.
Carrie Held Hostage: Day Eight.
Miranda and I went shopping.
I'm on total ovary overload. Which kind do I get?
Sweetie, I just spent $395 on a pair of open-toed Gucci's last week.
-This is not the place to be frugal
What about this one?
What if I am?
I don't think I'd be very good at this.
I mean, am I maternal?
When I was a little girl, I left my baby doll out in the rain for four days.
Her face peeled off. That can't be good.
- I shaved my Barbie's head when I was mad at her.
- God.
Can you picture it, us with--
- Babies.
Five hours and two packs of gum later...
I decided I couldn't take the test...
till I knew exactly how I felt about the results, either way.
- Hello?
The truth is, Laney's hormones have been going wild since she was ten.
We did. It's amazing how much time has gone by.
- Mm-hmm.
Absolutely. Listen, I've gotta go. I'm running late.
- Actually Samantha's having one of her parties.
- Next time. I promise, all right?
Okay, bye.
Faced with her own inadequacies...
Samantha did something only Samantha could do.
She threw an l-don't-have-a-baby shower...
to let everyone know she was fabulous.
- Yes, I am, but not as much fun as Miranda.
Still convinced that marriage plus baby equals death...
Miranda chose life...
also known as Ed, Samantha's accountant.
- Maybe we better sit down.
- I don't knw, Laney. You think that's a good idea?
I spent the next hour keeping Charlotte away from Laney...
and Laney away from the vodka.
Look who came up for air.
Hey, Jonathan.
- Wide open.
- Nothing.
It's a private joke. Go forth and date.
His name was Jonathan Bix.
He was a trader at Bear Sterns...
and had just closed escrow on a house in the Hamptons.
Charlotte suddenly realized all was not lost.
As she sipped her beer...
she mentally Scotch-taped her dream house back together again.
Laney, maybe we should think about getting you home, all right?
Laney, come on. Come back. Don't do this.
Despite her best efforts to run free...
it appeared that Laney Berlin's invisible electric fence...
stretched all the way to Manhattan.
Laney, it's not who you are anymore. It's all right.
It's all right.
Can you take her to Connecticut?
I spent the entire next day sitting on a park bench watching children play.
If I had to, could I do this?
Would I be any good?
Would I somehow manage to stay me?
Hello. Oh, my!
That's okay. She's adorable.
- Bye. - Bye-bye.
On the way home...
I got my period.
New York City is all about sex.
People getting it. People trying to get it.
And people who can't get it.
No wonder the city never sleeps. It's too busy trying to get laid.
But if you ever actually do manage to get someone in bed...
the real fun begins.
We love our nuts.
After sleeping together for many weeks...
Big and I had gotten comfortable enough to really sleep together.
It was nice. It was the way...
I'd always dreamed it could be.
- Morning.
Oh, my God.
Shut up!
I hadn't dressed so quickly since the time...
I was caught in the boy's dorm sophomore year.
- Oh, gosh.
I'm late for a thing.
Oh, my God. I was mortified.
I didn't call him the rest of the day.
I tried to lose myself in work, but every time I stopped to think...
- Oh, God.
- I'd relive my hell all over again.
The next day, I realized how childish I was behaving.
I decided to stop avoiding the situation and take the grown-up approach--
complete and utter denial.
I saw the Met is opening a new Goya exhibit.
Do you want to go this Saturday?
I most certainly can.
Oh, and we have to stop and see the Renoirs. I love the Renoirs.
There's a moment in every relationship where romance gives way to reality.
Sure.
Night.
That was the first night we slept together and didn't make love.
By the middle of the next week, it was three times in a row...
and I was beginning to worry.
- No.
I'm sorry, sweetie.
I just-- I didn't know. Where have I been?
Relax. You're just in a dry spell.
That's different. Not doing it when you're with someone means much more...
than not doing it when you're not with someone.
- Maybe too comfortable.
I farted.
I farted in front of my boyfriend.
- And we're no longer having sex.
And he thinks of me as one of the boys.
And I'm gonna have to move to another city...
where the shame of this won't follow me.
I don't want him to know that.
I mean, he's this perfect guy.
He walks around his perfect apartment with his perfect suit.
He's perfect, perfect, perfect, and I'm the girl who farts.
- No wonder we're not having sex.
Says who? I mean...
say it's not the--
then what else is going on?
Is it normal to be in the same bed and not do it?
Oh, God. I hate that.
Who am I to know what's normal?
I haven't dated in a hundred years. I haven't a clue.
There are 1.3 million single men in New York...
1.8 million single women.
And of these more than 3 million people...
about 12 think they're having enough sex.
How often is normal?
Even in the plow position, I could count on Samantha...
for amazing sexual clarity.
Do you think it means something if Big and I are sleeping together...
but we're not sleeping together?
- When have I ever wanted that?
Okay, tell me.
I wasn't going to tell you this, but...
I farted.
- Not now. I did it in front of Big.
- You think?
It wasn't a choice. I'm human. It happened.
I knew it.
This is a watershed relationship moment I'm never gonna be able to erase.
- Now he tells me.
45 minutes and three animal positions later...
Samantha and Siddhartha were sipping green tea...
at a nearby health food restaurant.
Tofu or not tofu.
Amazingly, talking dirty about not having sex...
was the most sexually deviant act...
Samantha had participated in for months.
The next night when I met Charlotte for dinner...
I had reached my own transcendental state.
Pure Big obsession.
Ok. The first time he was tired.
The next two times, l--
I don't know. I don't know. It's bad, isn't it?
- That's not all. I--
I couldn't bring myself to tell her.
I was afraid she'd go spontaneously deaf.
I'm sorry. What were you saying?
- Right.
Meeting a friend's new boyfriend for the first time is always a little tense.
What if you don't like him? What if he doesn't like you?
What if you've already slept with him?
- Well, kind of.
Well, kind of used to go out.
- Three years ago?
- No.
We were in different places and l--
He's a sex maniac.
When Charlotte discovered that Kevin had tucked his libido away...
for her comfort level, she was even more moved by his restraint.
Terrified of going to Big's...
for what could become another platonic sleepover...
I paced my apartment and tried not to think about our lack of sex when--
There they were, my new neighbors--
Mr. and Mrs. Get-it-on.
A couple so obviously into each other there was only one thing to do--
watch.
Then something wonderful happened.
My desire overcame my fear.
Hi, it's me.
Is it okay if I come over? Okey.
Meanwhile, across town at the corner of Nirvana and West Third...
Siddhartha was helping Samantha along her newfound path.
I showed up at his apartment feeling sexy and confident.
Wearing my secret-weapon skirt that really hugged my hips...
I was ready to go.
He didn't have a prayer.
Very nice. Come on in. I'm watching the fight.
Fine. I'll leave.
What is wrong with you? Why are you acting so nuts?
Maybe I'm not perfect. Maybe I don't fit into your perfect life...
with your perfect apartment and your perfect pay-per-view fight.
Maybe I should leave.
I stood there and waited for the obligatory...
he's-coming-to-stop-me ten seconds.
He didn't.
By the time I got home, I was sure he'd left an apology on my voice mail.
You have no new messages in your mailbox.
I didn't sleep very well that night...
but I wasn't the only one.
After a night of spiritual reading with her hunky guru...
Samantha began to feel things she hadn't felt in a very long time--
frustrated and horny.
She decided it was time to put an end to her suffering.
But just as she reached the place Krishna called the gateway to life...
she turned back and decided not to enter.
After all, she'd come this far.
She could continue not to come at all.
In an effort to get her mind off sex...
Miranda had rented a five-hour Danish documentary...
on the Nuremberg trial.
- It actually worked until-- -
Like every woman consumed with a relationship problem...
I needed a project to keep my mind from obsessing...
and my hands from dialing his number.
Miranda needed to keep her hands busy as well.
- Nope.
And it's been two days.
Egg shell.
Well, I think it's over.
I should never have farted.
- I know it's not the fucking fart.
I just...I think I'm in love with him...
and I'm terrified that's he's gonna leave me because I'm not perfect.
Sex has stopped. He hasn't called.
What if he never calls and three weeks from now...
I pick up The New York Times and I read that he's married...
some perfect little woman who never passes gas under his $500 sheets.
I don't know. It's something about him. You should see me around him.
I'm not like me. I'm like "together Carrie."
I wear little outfits-- "sexy Carrie," and "casual Carrie."
Sometimes I catch myself actually posing. It's exhausting.
What if he doesn't like her? Miranda?
I had no idea they did an afternoon show.
When a show is good, word gets around.
There we were, the '90s version of matinee ladies.
Who said the theater was dead.
- Hey, snapping over Gummy Bears...
might be a sign that celibacy's not for you.
Sure, it's all fun until you get to know each other.
That move is what they're famous for.
After the second show, each of us went on with our Saturdays.
Miranda went to get a movie and another pound of Gummy Bears.
Samantha decided to channel her frustration at yoga.
She had reached the end of her path and her patience.
Samantha spent the rest of the afternoon having multiple yo-gasms.
Later that night, Charlotte was determined to prove she was stronger...
than selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors.
Once Charlotte realized she couldn't get what she thought she didn't want...
she couldn't imagine going on without it.
Saturday night's dinner came and went with no call from Big.
My life was suddenly shit...
but my cabinets were looking fabulous.
- Who is it?
- Yeah.
- I'm painting.
Why didn't you call?
I didn't invite you.
No, it's not. It's a mess.
The floors need to be stripped and the curtains are--
I want to change a lot of it.
That was me...
having a meltdown.
- Yes.
Really? Oh, I never noticed.
All I could think was why aren't we having sex?
Is this normal? What's wrong?
- Where are we going?
And then he kissed me.
Odd! How normal can sometimes feel so uncomfortable.
My friend Miranda was dating Thomas John Anderson...
an up-and-coming New York playwright.
Things were going great except for one thing.
Immediately after sex...
he'd hop out of bed and shower.
- Night after night, it was the same thing.
She decided to confront Thomas John Anderson as soon as he dried off.
So you think the water serves as a retro baptism kind of thing?
- Single people in New York...
rarely ask about their dates' religious backgrounds...
for the same reason they don't ask the number of former sex partners:
- too scary.
Clean. You forgot clean. He's a clean guy.
New York is a city filled with places to worship.
But it recently dawned on me...
the only time I ever heard anyone mention going into one...
was for a singles mixer.
Are relationships the religion of the '90s?
Having been raised in the church of "be nice to people...
and don't talk with your mouth full"...
I decided to check out some more traditional religious types...
in their natural habitat.
As I watched people leaving church, I was amazed at how they looked.
Valentino, Escada, Oscar de la Renta.
What is it about God and fashion that go so well together?
And suddenly, there he was wearing Armani on Sunday.
Big.
I admit it was kind of a shock.
Up until that moment, I thought he only believed in the Yankees.
Hello there, churchgoer.
- Research.
I'm doing a column on closet Presbyterians. You know any?
Who's the mystery woman?
- Really?
I'm so loving that. How come you never told me?
So every Sunday-- church.
- I can't. I'm on deadline...
and this cappuccino just kicked in, so--
God bless.
It was one of those awkward relationship moments...
where you feel like you know nothing about the person...
you thought you knew everything about.
- I think it's sweet.
Have you tried taking a shower with him?
- Park Avenue Presbyterian.
What, are you rating churches? ls there a Zagat guide for that?
The thing is, I'm dying to meet his mother.
Can you imagine?
- It's about time.
Five-hour lunches. I remember those.
Samantha uttering those words to us...
was an event as unfathomable...
as Moses parting the Red Sea.
It all started a couple of weeks ago...
on a particularly blah Wednesday night.
Samantha decided to treat herself to a night of great music.
After they closed the jazz joint they walked and talked for blocks.
And then Samantha did something rather shocking for a first date--
she didn't ask him home.
And with that one touch, Samantha...
who was never a believer in relationships...
suddenly became a convert.
- Don't spread that around.
The idea that Samantha could possibly get married before she did...
shook Charlotte's beliefs to the core.
She took some drastic action.
She made an appointment to see Noanie Stine...
psychic to the stars and a cosmic connection...
who lived in a brownstone between Central Park West and Columbus.
Charlotte had heard about Noanie through a sorority sister...
whose marriage she had very accurately predicted.
So, who is the fabulous mother in the hat...
and when do I get to go to church with you two?
You say that like I'm the antichrist or something.
Oh, really? What type am l?
I'm no one religion in particular. I'm open to all.
- Come on.
I want to go to church with you and your mommy. How about this Sunday?
Sure. I'll go pack my jet ski.
- Yeah, but I can't afford it.
In her effort to help...
Miranda had accidentally detonated some kind of Catholic guilt bomb.
Six months later, that exact same speech...
would find its way into Thomas John Anderson's...
hit-off-Broadway play Shower of Shame.
Meanwhile, downtown...
Samantha was preparing to see God.
Samantha said a little prayer that he was kidding.
He wasn't.
Sunday morning. A time for rest. A time for relaxation.
A time for spying.
The plan was simple. Just get a look at the mother...
then Miranda and I would go for eggs.
Will you lighten up? It's a Presbyterian church, not a Catholic one.
Here, pray.
There they are.
- Right there.
As I watched Big standing quietly next to his mother--
tall, proud, respectful--
I think I fell a little bit more in love with him.
No, they saw me. I have to say hello.
I can't pray and run.
There they are.
Go. I'm fine.
Slippery gloves.
- 'Morning.
- It's a lovely church.
- Don't you think it's lovely?
I searched her face looking for the light of recognition.
But there was nothing.
- Why hasn't the woman even heard of me?
I didn't mean--
"Time frame"?
We've been going out for months.
I really don't know what else to say to you.
- "Faith"?
Well, go.
Just go.
He introduced me to his mother as a friend.
She never heard of me.
That isn't a good sign.
- Don't lie. You're in a church.
I can't get inside.
I don't know what else I can do.
Late that night in the Church of Disco...
Stanford invited everyone he knew...
to a party to introduce a new fragrance--
Fallen Angel.
Also, he wanted to show off his new boyfriend...
Allanne.
- Hi. Nice to meet you finally.
Yes. Congratulations.
Stanford and Allanne worshiped the same God--
style.
No. I don't know. I can't help feeling...
Iike it's some sort of consolation prize for not letting me in his life.
- We're not in the greatest place.
He wouldn't introduce me to his mother.
It seems Stanford had invited everyone in his Rolodex.
Miranda looked at Skipper.
The months apart had shed a new light on him.
Actually, they'd shed a new light on his shower-free feelings about sex.
Later that night, the three of us tracked Samantha to the ladies' room...
to get the lowdown on her love life with James.
So, how is everything?
And?
Sweetie, what is it?
What's going on? Why are you crying?
- It's not the end of the world.
- Size isn't everything.
- Well-- -
- Look. We've all been there.
I'm sorry. It's just
-- It's funny.
Charlotte left us all behind, telling us she had another party to go to.
She took a cab to a part of town never mentioned in the New Yorker.
The entire way home, Charlotte berated herself for being so foolish.
She simply refused to give in to the idea...
that she would never get married.
All she had to do was keep believing, and it would happen.
It was 3:00 a.m. in the Church of Disco...
and Miranda couldn't believe what she was about to say.
Samantha tried desperately to believe that love was stronger than sex.
I stayed up all night questioning my faith in faith.
I mean, hadn't I had faith in us all along?
Faith that all the withholding would stop.
Faith that he'd say "I love you."
Wait, wait. Put them down a second.
Just put them down.
I need a sign.
I mean, you told me to have faith, but, see...
I'm kind of losing mine, so...
I need a sign.
Just tell me I'm the one.
You don't have to tell your mother or the whole world, just--
Just tell me.
I can't.
I love you, but I can't.
After he left, I cried for a week.
And then I realized I do have faith.
Faith in myself.
Faith that I would one day meet someone...
who would be sure that I was the one.
When you live on a tiny island like Manhattan the odds of bumping into the one who broke your heart are incredibly high.
The odds of bumping into him when you look like shit are even higher.
After a break-up, certain streets, locations even times of day are off-limits.
The city becomes a deserted battlefield loaded with emotional land mines.
You have to be very careful where you step or you could be blown to pieces.
- I'm really not in the mood.
- Where are we going? .
Only if it's nowhere I can run into him.
I always like a math solution to any love problem.
I don't really remember it being like that.
Miranda called Eric the love of her life until he left her for another woman.
Now, she almost never mentioned him.
Yeah. That sounds about right.
I'll risk being overdressed vs.
The chance of meeting Big looking the way I feel.
Then there's the vomiting.
If Big had any class, he would've moved away.
I was here first.
Right, and that makes me what, happy?
Amazingly, Samantha was still with James.
A monogamous relationship for a woman whose bedroom was busier than Balducci's on a Saturday.
After two months, despite all his sweetness and charm Samantha still hadn't quite accepted James's shortcomings.
When Miranda said, "Get back in the game," she meant it.
Forty minutes and a $55 cab ride later, we found ourselves at Yankee Stadium.
Miranda was a fan of the Yankees
I was a fan of being able to smoke and drink at 2:00 p.m. without judgement
It's the only place I can smoke without Giuliani putting me away for 10 years.
Love! Woo!
Is it kosher?
As Miranda went on about the new Yankee's stats I couldn 't help wondering about my own.
Ten years playing in New York.
Countless dates.
Five real relationships.
One serious.
All ending in break-ups.
If I were a ballplayer I'd be batting Whatever really bad is.
I didn't. But I couldn't help wondering if they were any higher than finding a relationship that would last.
Three innings, four beers and one shameless flash of my press pass later We waited outside the locker room to get my ball signed by the new Yankee.
I'm not drunk, I'm sedated from my pain.
I'm her friend.
Could you hold these?
- No, I came for the beer.
I think baseball's a little dull.
- You'd be surprised.
- Thank you.
I'm gonna ask him to the Dolce & Gabbana party.
Yankee! I don't know if it was the beer or the fact that I was holding his ball.
Something gave me the strength to ask the new Yankee out.
Why? You told me to get back in the game.
Maybe I'm the new Carrie.
Let's blow this hot dog stand.
She knew it was risky, but a day of watching big men swing their big wooden bats proved to be too much for Samantha.
She told herself there's no harm in just looking.
As my ballpark cheap beer buzz wore off I began to worry about the ramifications of my day.
Was Charlotte right? Were we supposed to get over an ex in a slow, painful way? Or should we ignore all the bad feelings and throw ourselves back in the game?
In a world where leaving each other seems to be getting more frequent What are the break-up rules?
Friday night, the Dolce & Gabbana party. The new Yankee was 10 minutes late.
I was running 20 behind.
I was reaching for my favorite necklace when I thought I'd destroyed all the evidence, but there it was.
We'd taken it with a disposable camera before it ever dawned on me that we could be disposable as well.
It was then and there I created my own very first break-up rule: Destroy all pictures where he looks sexy and you look happy.
The party was a complete home run.
All the fashion heavy-hitters were there.
Charlotte was dating Paul Ericson the V.P.
Of a major recording label's classical and jazz division.
He was handsome, smart, eclectic.
The perfect match for Charlotte.
Except for one minor snag.
There we were, two single gals out on the town with our ballplayers.
I thought I saw
- No, it wasn't him.
I don't know, I hadn't thought about it.
Break-up rule number two: Lie.
It's a lot easier than admitting that's why you invited the new Yankee and why you maxed out your credit card to buy the dress.
When Mr.
Big never made an appearance, I decided to make the best of it.
I actually got to know a little about this new Yankee.
His name was Joe.
So, Joe, the new Yankee How'd you like your first fashion party?
Nothing. It's just "Kind of cool.
" You're very succinct.
A little bit.
You're kind of cute, too.
And there, in the shadow of my island just four weeks out of my last relationship I let the new Yankee get to first base.
Our Saturday morning ritual: Coffee, eggs, and a very private dish session.
Today our dish wasn't so private.
" It's a proud day for me.
I don't want him to die.
It freaked me out.
I didn't know what the hell was going on.
I still don't.
What is?
- Is that a patented phrase?
Charlotte's boyfriend's balls.
In the case of Miranda Hobbes vs.
Silly women everywhere, the verdict was in.
Guilty as charged.
After breakfast, Charlotte and I went shopping.
Break-up rule number three: Until emotionally stabilized, enter no stores.
Later, Samantha and James were about to enter the seventh inning stretch.
Rather than quit mid-season, Samantha decided to attack her problem with the gusto of a seasoned coach training a rookie.
A good coach encourages and motivates.
A good coach disciplines and criticizes.
And like every good coach she passed on the benefits of her years of experience.
Then, at the bottom of the ninth try, with two balls and two strikes.
The coach had no choice, but to bring in a pinch hitter.
But there was no joy in Mudville. Mighty Samantha had struck out.
But a little further uptown, the ball game was just getting started.
Charlotte had decided a possible solution to her problem might be as simple as briefs vs.
Boxers.
But Charlotte couldn't bring herself to tell him the problem was foul balls.
And that was that.
He broke it off after only three weeks.
Charlotte, true to form, was over him in exactly a week and a half.
Whenever Miranda was feeling stressed, she went for a long walk.
She'd lose herself in the places and faces and whatever was bothering her would somehow lift.
But today, she would have no such luck.
Just when Miranda decided she was the only woman in New York with any real perspective on men There he was.
Eric Asshole.
The former love of her life.
Walking hand and hand with the woman he left her for.
Somewhere between playing the Royals and the Red Sox the new Yankee found a minute to teach me some dugout pastimes.
Shit.
Hold my beer.
- Sorry.
Break-up rule number four: Never stop thinking about him even for a moment because that's the moment he'll appear.
As he made his way through the crowd, I felt calm.
I had accomplished the perfect first meeting.
I looked good, I felt good, and I was with the new Yankee.
Look at you I've been -
- Good, good, good.- Sorry. This is Joe Stark.
Sure.
I'm sorry.
I'm really sorry, it's not you.
This is This is really embarrassing.
- I'm sorry.
I'm really embarrassed.
I don't think I'm okay.
I just I just cried in your mouth.
I just I can't I'm not ready.
That guy in the bar That suit guy.
I better go.
Sorry.
- No, please. Don't pay any more attention to me.
Just go, please.
Go to that bar thing.
I'm just gonna get a cab, all right? Please.
Will you just go? All right, then I'll go.
But I didn't go home.
I couldn't.
I went to a pay phone.
It's me.
Hi, listen.
I know things are really weird between us right now.
But I really need to talk.
Can you Will you meet me at our place in 15 minutes? Okay.
I saw Big.
And I completely fell apart.
I know you want me to be over him I'm a jerk.
These are cold.
And finally, the most important break-up rule: No matter who broke your heart or how long it takes to heal you'll never get through it without your friends.
Two years ago, my friend Susan-Sharon the East Coast rep for a line of Italian cashmere sportswear married a mean man.
Now, I only see her once or twice a year generally when her husband is out of town.
- My God.
The place looks fantastic!
In here? Susan-Sharon and her husband had one of those very adult apartments that made me feel like I was 16 visiting the home of a friend whose parents thought I was a bad influence.
You didn't have to.
It's beautiful.
God, I love it.
It's a "cashmere-ical.
- Don't tell me.
- $900 for a scarf? No.
- Do you mind if I return it? I need cash.
- I'll call you.
It's okay.
- Goodnight, Grumpy.
Taunting the psychotic spouse, I realized, was not a wise move.
I wondered could their marriage be that bad, or was their fighting a form of foreplay? In which case, I was merely the catalyst to get things going.
Don't be.
He's just tired and cranky.
Maybe there were special circumstances tonight.
If things didn't change
If you're not happy, you know, life's too short.
As I hung up, I realized I had been placed in a classic no-win situation.
She had me at a weak moment.
I was tired, I'd been chased out of her apartment.
I have a birthday looming.
- I said too much.
You should join the U.N.
- Are we speaking of Spring Roll Guy?
The problem, if you can call it that is Spring Roll Guy liked to talk dirty in bed.
Why not?
- We're using the "C" word now? - Sorry.
- A simple, "You're so hard," is effective.
So, are you really telling us that during sex you're completely mute?
Was Miranda right? Have we put such a premium on being open and honest with one another that we've misplaced the boundaries of propriety? Are there still certain things in a relationship one should never say?
There it was, standing across from me.
Biscotti-eating, cashmere-swaddled proof that I had said too much.
- Then what happened?
I didn't want to tell Susan-Sharon that his last statement was probably true.
What are you gonna do?
Of course not. That evening, as Susan-Sharon squatted on my couch Charlotte came home to the new male in her life.
Fed up with lonely mornings, cuddle-free nights and the lack of unconditional love she longed for Charlotte took matters into her own hands.
She combed the city for the perfect specimen of breeding, style and trendiness.
Until she found the perfect man, Charlotte would have the perfect dog.
That night, Samantha, who was never good at keeping a secret found the one thing she couldn 't say was the only thing she could think about.
Samantha dreaded the shrink the way most people feared the dentist.
She longed for the simple days of emotional unavailability and hot one-night stands.
Meanwhile, across town, Miranda was appearing as Eliza Doolittle in My Filthy Lady.
Surprisingly, once Miranda opened her mouth, it was difficult to shut up.
That night, I took Susan-Sharon to meet the new male in Charlotte's life.
True to form, he was already falling far short of her high expectations.
He was inconsistent
selfishly stubborn, and hopelessly codependent.
Aren't you leaving him?
You didn't know he was a prick.
The next morning, I woke up to an unsettling birthday surprise.
Coming.
Thank you.
My God.
" It's from Big.
- Roses, red. Big.
Expensive. - What do you think it means?
I really don't need this on my birthday.
What does this mean, the ball's in my court or something? I don't want to play games.
This is not the grand gesture.
This is the vague gesture which is worse than no gesture.
Charlotte was at the point where she was starting to see the real Henry. But she did raise a valid question.
Was, "I was wrong," the one thing Mr.
Big couldn 't say? I realized that just because we were no longer together didn 't mean I couldn 't be polite.
It's me.
Carrie.
Great. I wanted to call and thank you for the flowers.
That was thoughtful of you.
Your secretary sent them?
That was very thoughtful of her and you for sending them.
Stanford's arranged this party down at Layla, that Moroccan restaurant.
You should come.
The instant the words popped out of my mouth, I regretted them.
Or not.
I mean, just forget it.
Fine.
Whatever.
Come and bring that person and maybe I'll see you later.
Thank you again for the thoughtful flowers.
I couldn't believe it.
I had just invited my ex and his date to my birthday party.
As if getting older wasn't traumatic enough.
That afternoon in the office of Velma Rudin celebrated psychologist and author of In-to-me-see A Couple's Guide to Intimacy Samantha did her best not to say the thing she knew she shouldn 't say.
Samantha almost confessed that James had been playing "hide the salami" since they met.
The idea of seeing Velma "In-to-me-see" Rudin on a weekly basis was much more than Samantha could bear.
As Samantha paid the price of mentioning the unmentionable Miranda discovered that free speech comes with a cost of its own.
They enjoy it, but don't want it brought to their attention.
Charlotte, you may be onto something.
Another double vodka rocks for the birthday girl.
The truth was, vodka was my only ally.
At any moment, Big was gonna walk in with his gorgeous date smile at me like some distant stranger and say something crushing Happy birthday, baby.
Glad you could make it.
Jack is your date?
It is so good to see you again. How have you been?
Happy birthday to me.
An hour later, my Arabian Nights fantasy birthday felt like Midnight Express.
- Great. How are you?
Good.
I told him to drop by for a drink. I didn't think he'd stay for a lap dance.
While I watched my ex get a Mesopotamian lap dance Susan-Sharon made a play for Mr.
Marvelous.
In that moment, Susan-Sharon realized she desperately missed her husband. That night, Charlotte came home to a very unpleasant surprise.
He and Charlotte soon parted ways.
The one thing she could never say was, "I got rid of the puppy.
" We all know what happened to him.
He'd become the glue that put Susan-Sharon and her husband back together.
Although neither of them could admit that a dog saved their marriage.
Later that evening, as my birthday passed into the early hours of just another day I found myself alone on the street with Mr.
Big.
And none the wiser.
- No, I'm just gonna grab a cab.
- No, I'm okay.
Goodnight.
As I watched him go, I realized the one thing I couldn't say to Mr.
Big was "I'm still not over you."
Manhattan, for millions of our forefathers, the gateway to hope opportunity and happiness beyond their wildest dreams.
Today, that hope is still alive.
It's called The First Date.
On Saturday nights, every restaurant in Lower Manhattan resembles its own little Ellis Island.
Hordes of single women crowded into a hot, cramped space hoping to make it to their final destination: The state of matrimony.
Or at least to get a hot meal in transit.
Samantha didn't believe in The First Date.
But she did believe in sex after it.
Harrison was a very successful litigator who took steam baths with Ron Perlman and owned an apartment on the 39th floor of Museum Tower.
An excellent first-date pedigree.
After dinner, Harrison invited Samantha up to see his view.
There, next to his Brooks Brothers suits was the world's smallest cedar-lined den of inequity.
Apparently the view left a little to be desired.
The next night, Samantha invited us to a party she was throwing for the new coffee-table book du jour.
The book was awful, but the hors d'oeuvres were fabulous.
Give him credit.
Takes a lot of work to get rigged up like that.
- What if he's still hanging there?
That's completely unfair.
- What about us?
- Really?
If Samantha's past four birthdays taught me anything it was that there is only one answer to this question. You don't look a day over 35.
When Charlotte really liked a guy, she said his whole name.
It helped her to imagine their future monogrammed towels.
Suddenly, Charlotte's towels were looking very different.
- He's so cute to be so nasty.
- Eating out?
Reality was, the only thing that went down with regularity on Charlotte's dates was a Gold American Express card.
The guy's got good word of mouth.
Unlike Miranda, I wasn't ready to accept that all single men were freaks.
I was so optimistic, I had actually agreed to go on my first blind date in two years.
P.J was a very successful independent-movie producer.
His documentary on endangered seagulls had just aired to excellent reviews on PBS.
So, documentary films.
That must be fun.
- What about the seagulls?
Step right up, folks.
Two vodkas and a $12 pasta buys your admission to see The Man With No Soul.
Observe if you dare, this chilling sight.
Bachelor Number Two seemed promising.
Just so you know, I can't see a movie without popcorn.
Ladies and gentlemen, stand far away from The Man With Two Faces. They say the third time's the charm.
Max was a broker who made $2 million on bonds last year.
We had a great dinner in Little Italy.
Not only did Max have $2 million he also appeared to have a lending library in his pants.
Parents, please keep the kiddies away from the cage of The Man Who Steals Cheap Used Books for No Reason.
Okay, now I was afraid.
Apparently the men in the dating world had devolved since the last time I visited.
Maybe Miranda was right.
They never should've outlawed freak shows because at least then the freaks were rounded up in one place.
Now they're out there among us, roaming free.
Is it true? Are all men freaks? Apparently Charlotte's week went a little better than mine.
On Monday night, she was finally ready to let Mitch under her sheets way under.
That night Charlotte came harder than she ever had before.
That is, until Tuesday.
- Wednesday. Thursday.
- Friday.
Friday
Friday.
That night, Charlotte saw God seven times.
For a lapsed Episcopalian, it was a very Good Friday.
If Mitch was a freak, Charlotte was ready to run away and join the circus.
Meanwhile, all I wanted to do was run away.
Bad date.
He was a kleptomaniac.
Hi, Carrie.
I was instantly attracted.
But I was pretty sure I could feel webs between his fingers.
So when did you guys all become freaks?
- Thank you.
I once saw the world's fattest twins at a state fair.
They were both married.
- Their wives were very skinny.
Maybe.
- I thought you didn't date.
- A non-date. Maybe
- Let's call it a non-no.
And it was then that the most freaky thing happened.
There in the middle of Manhattan two complete strangers gave out their unlisted phone numbers.
Meanwhile, Samantha was about to have her own chance encounter.
An hour later, Samantha had her first Big Mac and an appointment with the most expensive plastic surgeon on Upper Fifth.
Meanwhile, I had my own ass to be obsessed with and it belonged to Ben an editor at a hip political magazine, who made me laugh.
This is me.
So no kiss.
There was nothing "non" about it.
A week and three non-dates later Samantha summoned us to make an announcement.
That's a girdle with a hole.
- It got old.
- So how is he? -
- You and Mr.
Pussy.
To Samantha, Charlotte had committed the ultimate sin.
She was Bogarting Mr.
Pussy.
- Sweetie, Miranda has a point.
Have you guys had dinner together? Have you seen a play, anything?
You know what? You've fallen into the sex haze.
Where the sex is really great and you start acting like a crazy person.
You imagine the relationship is something it's not.
Hoping to prove Miranda wrong I had convinced her to come out on a double non-date with Ben 's friend, Luke.
Things were actually going remarkably well.
Nothing makes you feel like more of a non-couple than creating another non-couple.
Unfortunately, our smugness was a little premature.
I'd unwittingly set Miranda up on a date with Manhattan Guy.
A genetically mutant strain of single men that fed on Zabar's and midnight shows at the Angelica.
No, thanks.
Miranda had invoked our code phrase.
Honed over years of bad parties, awful dates and unending phone calls.
Unfortunately, I wasn't ready to accept defeat.
- I thought you already fed your cat.
- Where are you going?
God, I hope not.
That night, I couldn't get Miranda's freaky comment out of my head.
Is there anything weird about you I should know before this gets any more compromising?
It's adorable.
No. Three stitches.
I got into a fight with a third-grade bully.
And then The Amazing Tattooed Man made love to me.
And it didn't feel weird at all.
While Miranda was busy feeding her pussy Charlotte was trying to do everything but.
There, over the exotic-fruit plate Charlotte tried to make a relationship happen.
What are you thinking about? Charlotte realized Miranda was right.
She had stayed too long at the fair.
From that moment on, Charlotte couldn't be in the same room with a fig.
Some people might call that a little odd.
Meanwhile, Samantha was about to get her own special showing.
To Samantha, surgery was like being at Barneys. Once you're in the door, you might as well shop.
Samantha felt like she had walked into a fun house.
Only it wasn't particularly funny.
It had happened.
We had done it and now I really liked him.
I was deep into the sex haze and completely freaked out.
There had to be something sick and off about him.
If the rest of the species had devolved, Ben would have to be a freak to survive.
I had to find out what was wrong before I wasted the next six months.
It started innocently enough.
I just wanted to see what the guy ate listened to dated.
Then it took on a life of its own.
Somewhere in this hip, normal-looking apartment was the clue to Ben 's inner freakiness.
And I wasn 't gonna rest until I found it.
There it was, taunting me.
Ben 's secret box of freakdom.
Home of illicit photos, love letters, maybe an old marriage license.
I don't know. I can't explain it.
I guess I was looking for something.
Something freaky.
I was.
I'm gonna go.
That was the day I came face to face with my freak.
The frightening woman whose fear ate her sanity.
The truth is, it isn't just the men.
It's all of us.
Anyone who's single in Manhattan gets a little freaked out from time to time.
But we keep trying, because you have to figure if the world's fattest twins can find love, there's hope for all of us.
Somewhere out there is another little freak who will love us, understand us and kiss our three heads and make it all better.
And in the meantime, we always have Manhattan.
In life, certain events come along so rarely that when they do, special attention must be paid.
Events like Halley's comet, solar eclipses getting that second latte for free.
One night at a salsa club in very downtown Manhattan four single girlfriends found themselves without a relationship at the exact same time.
- Here's to us without men.
You tell her, Mr.
Sister.
I gotta go. I'm getting my picture taken for the magazine article in the morning.
New York Magazine.
They're doing a profile of 20 Manhattan singles and it's called "Single and Fabulous.
I was picked because Stanford's new boyfriend is the assistant photo editor.
- All right, one drink.
One drink turned into many, and before I knew it I was dragging my tired, yet single and fabulous ass home at dawn.
I decided my best bet to avoid looking like I'd been up all night was to stay up all morning.
I'm there, 20 minutes.
I said 20 minutes! I could not get a cab.
Stop, I was up all night. I need a coffee the size of my head.
- Gosh, hi.
Stanford has told me so much about you.
It's really nice to finally meet you.
My poncho!
Hi, I'm so sorry.
- Sure. There's gonna be time for makeup, right?
Coffee. - Do you mind if I smoke?
I never keep people waiting.
I got to bed really late last night.
And it's my personal belief, I lapsed into a coma.
Thank you.
Being single and fabulous also frees up one's weekends.
Saturdays usually spent browsing with him in Soho are left for practical things like power walking with your single and fabulous girlfriends.
We're not burning off anything.
Let's gossip to get our heart rates up.
We're officially stopping.
The idea that Miranda would fake anything stopped me cold.
Naturally.
Mine do.
For me, it's a toss-up.
The usual, please.
Having smoked all my cigarettes during our workout I stopped for fresh supplies when There I was hanging right next to Martha Stewart Living Carrie Bradshaw, dying of embarrassment.
"Single and Fabulous?" There was no question mark implied.
I would never agree to be in an article, "Single and Fabulous?" I was set up.
Not after that picture I won't be.
They said, "Single and Fabulous!" They did not say, "Single and Fabulous?" That question mark is hostile.
- It's too late. I'm all over the city looking like something that got caught in a drain.
You know what? I just quit smoking.
Charlotte said, "Fuck.
I'm a cautionary tale? Shoot me.
But I had a sneaking suspicion they didn't quite believe it.
Somehow, the question mark had leapt off my cover and on to each of them.
Because, within a week Miranda met Josh for old time's sake.
Samantha met William for a dance.
And Charlotte met a deadline head-on.
Tom was an out of work actor friend Charlotte had come to depend on to do the occasional male things she needed done around her apartment. Because he was an out of work actor, he had a lot of time.
And because he had a lot of time, he had a lot of tools.
Charlotte made a decision.
She decided she wasn't gonna let her Mr.
Fix-It get away.
While women are certainly no strangers to faking it we faked our hair color, cup-size.
Hell, we've even faked fur.
I couldn 't help but wonder, has fear of being alone suddenly raised the bar on faking? Are we faking more than orgasms? Are we faking entire relationships? Is it better to fake it than be alone?
A glamorous city like New York offers a sea of single and fabulous things for the fabulous and single to do.
As long as the magazine's on newsstands, I'm not going out in public for fear of being scorned and chased with sticks.
One, one! I'm not smoking.
Still faking it?
I think you just found the title for your autobiography.
If you had a son, we'd call social services.
Because you're faking it!
Could you please just tell me why?
It's codependent coming.
At first Samantha listened, fascinated, detached.
It was rare to hear a man use the "we" word, so comfortably so early on.
Pretty soon she gave in.
She lay back, opened up and let the "we" wash over her.
Hello.
- I don't know, Gucci?
- Isn't it a little early?
I mean, early in the relationship.
He's a "we" guy.
They say that every great actor knows when to stop performing.
For Miranda, it was that Saturday night at exactly 10:40.
Later that week, I went over to Charlotte's to see some of Tom's handiwork.
First Samantha and now Charlotte went "we," "we," all about her home.
That's amazing! How will you get all that done before you leave?
"Bye, honey?"
You can't create a relationship with a guy just because he can caulk your tub.
As I walked home, I couldn't help but wonder when did being alone become the modern day equivalent of being a leper? Will Manhattan restaurants soon be divided up into sections? Smoking, non-smoking, single, non-single?
The usual, please. Then I had a frightening thought.
Maybe I was the one who was faking it.
All these years faking to myself that I was happy being single.
Yes, it's me.
And there it was, pity.
Pity from the man who sells me my Marlboro Lights.
It was the final straw.
I decided I wasn 't gonna let a magazine or my friends or the Surgeon General stop me from being who I was: Single and fabulous, exclamation point.
- Excuse me?
I've been out of commission for four days and there's a new drink? I invited Stanford to join me at a fabulous party downtown to honor the fabulous conceptual photographer Ellen von Unwerth.
Unfortunately, he invited his new boyfriend, Nevin "von Bitchy.
" - Hi, I hate you.
Who cares? Next week you'll have a coke-dealing slumlord on the cover.
You realize you'll have to dump him.
Tartini! While Stanford and I did downtown Samantha was uptown waiting for William at her favorite romantic restaurant.
At first she thought she had the wrong time.
When he still wasn't there No message.
She hadn't expected to be caught out in public alone without a book, project, or any of her "dining-out-alone-armor." She had nothing to do but sit and wait for him.
By now she knew that "we" William wasn 't ever gonna show up.
He was one of those men who faked a future to get what he wanted in the present.
She felt exposed, vulnerable, like a fool.
Samantha let the Pakistani busboy kiss her.
After all, he'd been so sweet and attentive with the bread.
As Samantha looked into his sweet and hopeful eyes, she realized something.
No matter how much it hurts sometimes it's better to be alone than fake it.
Meanwhile, downtown, I heard the funniest thing I'd ever heard from a man I just met.
My God.
I'm sorry, your pants.
- I'm sorry.
Well, fuck you.
Exclamation point.
- C'mon, it's early.
Just go.
Go, go, go home.
Take your tired, fabulous ass home.
I want to meet cute guys.
I don't think so.
His name was Jake. He was everything I was looking for that night.
Single, straight and a smoker.
There wasn't quite as much smoke uptown.
Miranda's two-day tutorial with her ophthalmologist had turned lovemaking into a kind of naked eye exam.
Even with all Josh's good intentions, Miranda found herself no closer. She realized she was not a jet engine.
She was a lot more complicated.
It would never work between them.
She wanted to give him something for learning so much and trying so hard.
So, Miranda came.
She came out of retirement for one final performance.
- Fabulous.
I looked at myself in the mirror.
What had I been so afraid of all week? I was still young, still desirable.
I would never wind up alone.
And there it was. My question mark staring me right in the face.
Was that me? If I went home with him, it'd be the only time I'd ever had sex to validate my life.
The question mark would no longer be a question, it would be a fact.
- I gotta go home.
Fine.
Charlotte was faking it. She'd realized two days ago, while she had no problem faking orgasms she could never fake intimacy.
Tom was faking, too.
He was mostly just sick of New York and needed an excuse to leave.
It was a perfectly timed double fake.
Under other circumstances, they could've shared a long life together.
Over the next week, things returned to normal.
Miranda forgot to return Josh 's last call.
Samantha made peace with her feelings about "we" William.
And Charlotte learned you don 't have to rely on men 's affections to get things fixed around the house.
You can pay them.
As for me, after I was recycled I decided instead of running away from the idea of a life alone I'd better sit down and take that fear to lunch.
- No, it's just me.
Thanks.
So, I sat there and had a glass of wine alone.
No books, no man, no friends, no armor no faking.
There are only two times when it's appropriate to wear the little black dress in daylight.
One involves leaving a party way too late.
The other involves leaving the party way too early.
The New York funeral.
Javier was a hot Cuban designer and the toast of the New York fashion elite.
He was also a good friend.
I had known him since he was Harvey.
Javier loved clothes.
Unfortunately, he loved heroin more.
Shit.
Okay.
Wow, look at you!
Isn't it a little wrong to wear a dead man's design to his own funeral?
$2,000? You're kidding.
That's the thing about New York.
You're always more popular when your not around.
Reminder, honey: This is a funeral, not Friday night at Bond Street.
We were supposed to see a show together.
Apparently, Charlotte and I were the inappropriate ones.
There it was, Javier's entire new spring line.
It was his best show ever.
Christ, my heels keep getting stuck.
So much for death with dignity.
Josephina was Javier's sister and heir apparent to the Javier industry.
In a day she had gone from ugly duckling to Donatella Versace.
Death definitely became her.
Javier would have wanted it that way.
No, don't.
- No.
That's unusually nice of you.
You had to give Samantha credit.
She always saw the positive.
One man's death was another woman 's p.r. opportunity
You picked up a man at a cemetery?
The dead wife factor.
It didn't work for Big.
All marriage did was convince him he hated committing.
So I'm the one with the commitment problem?
While we were watching them break ground on Javier's last location Miranda was breaking new ground of her own.
With that, Ms.
Miranda Hobbes Esquire, a.k.a.
"just me" bought herself her first apartment and promptly took herself out for a drink.
While Miranda was out celebrating her future I was in contemplating my own.
In a city that moves so fast, you get the Sunday paper on Saturday how did any of us know how much time we had left? There was so much I hadn't done.
I'd never been to Greece.
I hadn't finished painting my bathroom My Visa bill still wasn't paid in full.
Hell, sometimes I felt like I was barely living.
Hey.
It's just me.
Just got back from a funeral.
Listen do you want to have dinner some time?
Me.
- I'm hanging up now.
God, you're old.
It was so easy.
Just like that, I had made a Saturday night date with Big.
In under 30 seconds, we had resuscitated a relationship that had taken six months to die.
The next day, Samantha set out to break some records of her own.
Richard Cranwell, senior partner at Bear Sterns philanthropist, playboy.
His specialty was hostile takeovers.
In Samantha's case, it was more like a friendly merger.
Samantha groped Dick Cranwell for the good of all strung-out designers everywhere.
Unfortunately, she was not expecting Sandy Cranwell back early from groping a sweater set at Bendels.
Apparently, Sandy was not feeling as charitable as her husband.
Meanwhile, at her mortgage company across town Miranda was having her own troubles closing the deal.
In the course of one hour Miranda had checked more single women 's boxes than her gynecologist.
If you were a single man, I'd date you.
They're threatened.
Buying a place alone means you don't need a man.
Samantha had messed with the wrong woman.
Sandy Cranwell practically owned Manhattan and wanted Samantha off it.
Sandy Cranwell had done what any well-heeled socialite would do.
She took out a social hit on Samantha.
In 12 hours, Sam had gone from "a" list to blacklist.
The next night, Charlotte met Ned the widower for drinks.
They talked about architecture, art, the Ivy League.
The ex-wife wasn 't even in the picture Is this her? until the ex-wife's picture showed up.
Ordinarily, Charlotte hated when men cried.
But on Ned, it only made him more romantic.
Those were magic words to Charlotte's ears.
Apparently, all the time Ned needed was 45 minutes.
She has a point.
So how was the sex?
A threesome in absentia.
Excuse me, but when did cemeteries get so happening?
Man, you're good.
That night I had my date with Big.
I was feeling everything fear, happiness, dread.
Was I ready to jump back into a life with Big in it? Was seeing him again a huge mistake? And if it was why was I so excited? I had never felt so confused.
Was Charlotte right? In a world where everyone's dying to make a connection can a relationship bring you back to life?
Come on, everybody wonders what happens after you die.
I think we reincarnate.
Someone who knows better.
I'm serious.
- Do you believe in heaven?
Really? What's your idea of heaven?
" You're idea of heaven is a bed?
I'm not sleeping with you tonight.
We are.
A half hour later, and I was back at Big's, the site of so many past little deaths.
It felt great and weird and wrong.
- We can't do this.
Not like this.
No.
I have to go.
I didn 't know what had happened but suddenly, getting back together with Big seemed like a very bad idea.
I was scared to death.
The first time we got involved, I got out just in time.
Would I be as lucky the second? Across town, Samantha was facing her own uncertain future.
The first time, she thought it was an unfortunate oversight.
The second time was just unfortunate.
By the third time she was turned away, it had all become clear.
She was deader in this town than Javier.
The next day, Miranda met her new neighbor.
That night, Miranda had another disconcerting experience.
Halfway through her Three Delicacy Delight a delicacy got stuck.
After Miranda was done saving her own life she called someone who could commiserate.
Unfortunately, I was deep into screening mode.
Big had called twice and I didn't know what I wanted to say to him.
Hey, sweetie, you all right?
Why didn't you call me?
No, you are not.
Do you want me to come over?
The fact was, Miranda was not okay.
She went to bed hungry and locked the cat in the kitchen for two days.
After a week of being a social pariah Samantha realized if she ever wanted to get her life back, she'd have to beg for it.
She went to the top, the Godfather.
Shippy Shipman was the queen of the ladies who lunch.
And was personally responsible for the demise of at least 70 social lives.
It was bad.
Not only was Samantha dying but her entire sex life was flashing before her.
The next day, Miranda decided to check out her new neighborhood.
But suddenly, she was the one checking out.
That was the peculiar thing about New York you never knew if a cab was going to save you or kill you
or both.
They said you had a panic attack.
What's wrong?
Breathe, sweetie, breathe.
Sweetie, you can put me on there.
I'll pick up. I promise.
Listen you did the right thing buying that apartment. - You love it, right?
And you won't be alone forever.
The truth was, I didn't know if any of us would end up alone.
But I did know Miranda couldn't afford another panic attack.
Meanwhile, over in Queens Charlotte was about to get a surprise of her own.
Charlotte realized she wasn't the only woman resuscitating Ned.
Charlotte's relationship died right where it started.
She was prepared to live in the shadow of a dead woman.
She wasn 't prepared to live in the shadow of three live ones.
That Saturday, Samantha hit rock bottom also known as Javier House.
No one would return her phone calls.
She hadn 't raised any money.
All she could do for Javier House was construct it.
But six hours of hard labor later, Samantha experienced her own rebirth.
It was Leonardo DiCaprio, ex machina.
That day, Leonardo and Samantha became fast friends.
The nightmare was over.
Leonardo DiCaprio had brought Sam back to social life.
To add insult to panic attack Miranda had just gotten some unsettling news.
The mortgage officer had messed up Miranda's application.
They had inadvertently labeled her as "separated.
" And to clear up the confusion Miranda had to write a rather humiliating letter.
Miranda had a choice.
She could panic or she could just type.
Miranda killed her panic attacks right then and there.
She realized she probably wouldn't die alone.
But she kept overfeeding her cat just in case.
Meanwhile, four unreturned calls later, my number was up.
Wait, where are you going?
- I'm sorry.
Damn! Who'd you take?
It was deja vu all over again: Me, Big, a doorway and mixed emotions.
Wait, not here.
Come on.
We're going out.
I took him to the most non-sexual place I could think of.
I'm good! - Did you see that?
Two pitchers of cheap beer later, Big and I were having a great time.
Hey, batter batter!
Yeah. That was nice.
Okay, two out of three.
Maybe.
I didn't know what we were talking about anymore. But either way, I knew the answer.
Yep, let's do it.
We never made it to the second game.
I didn't know if it was suicide or not.
All I knew was Big and I had been reincarnated and I'd never felt more alive.
They say that New Yorkers will attend the opening of an envelope as long as the champagne doesn't run dry.
But tonight's opening at Charlotte's gallery for Yael a lesbian painter from Brooklyn Heights actually transcended the bad wine, stale cheese routine.
It was lesbian chic meets art-world cool.
A surprisingly fabulous combustion that no one saw coming.
Charlotte was there with her latest fling, Gareth Davis.
A toxic bachelor and the owner of Thorn, a downtown restaurant frequented by second-tier models and the men who buy them salad.
Miranda brought Ethan Watson a documentary filmmaker she had met the week before at a sparsely attended Harvard Alumni mixer.
And my date for the evening was Samantha.
Not entirely inappropriate given the circumstances.
Here.
What did you expect? It's a lesbian art show.
Who?
- Who is he?
You know what, honey? I think I'm gonna go home.
- I don't feel very well.
- I have a headache. It just hit me.
I just need some sleep.
Go on, make new friends.
- Okay.
With Samantha, Miranda and Charlotte all suitably occupied I figured there was no better time to make my escape.
The truth was, I had another engagement.
But I didn't dare tell any of my friends where I was going or who I was planning to meet.
- You don't look so bad yourself.
I knew it was wrong.
Seeing an emotionally unavailable man I had sworn off months earlier.
But the guilt worked like an aphrodisiac.
I had never felt sexier or more alive in my entire life.
By midnight, Charlotte discovered Manhattan 's latest group to flaunt their disposable income: The power lesbian.
They seem to have everything.
Great shoes, killer eyewear and the secrets to invisible makeup.
Charlotte had never sold out a show before in her life.
She was pleasantly surprised.
Unfortunately, there was a not so pleasant surprise in store for her.
Maybe he doesn't consider kissing cheating.
That sounds very empowering, but you're forgetting one detail.
- Women cheat.
Then what does drive us according to you?
The problem is that you two have very different definitions of cheating.
I just don't think that you can define cheating in absolute terms.
I think maybe there's a cheating curve. Someone's definition of what constitutes cheating is in direct proportion to how much they themselves want to cheat.
I prefer to think of it as quantum cheating.
I wondered, was Samantha right? Is cheating like the proverbial tree in the forest? That it doesn't exist if there's no one around to catch you? In a gravity-free world of anything goes, what constitutes cheating?
Samantha realized that while purity of form exacted a price it also had its own rewards.
Later that day, Charlotte realized she was tired of listening to another man 's weak justifications.
When she felt her life take a fortuitous turn.
Power lesbians and their shoes are like Wall Street brokers and their cigars.
The truth is Charlotte couldn't think of one really good reason not to go.
One drink at G-Spot, the hottest new girl bar in town followed by dinner and scintillating conversation at Luke's a hot new French-fusion restaurant with an even hotter chef followed by late-night dancing at Love Tunnel left Charlotte exhilarated and happy as she'd been in ages.
There was something relaxing and liberating in traveling in an alternate universe that contained no thought of men.
By the end of the night, Charlotte had truly made some wonderful new friends.
That night, Miranda was exhausted from her own night on the town.
She had spent the last four hours in the dark with Ethan watching the classic holocaust documentary Shoah.
Miranda was pleased to discover that Ethan was as passionate in bed as he was on the subject of non-narrative film. But just as they were getting down to business Miranda realized they were not alone.
Miranda realized that Ethan's passion for film had taken on a new and interesting twist.
A few nights later, after a late show of Gimme Shelter at the Waverly Miranda discovered that Ethan's new friends were hard to shake.
That night, in Mr.
Big's kitchen, I performed an unnatural act of my own.
I cooked.
Voila.
Fondue.
And tore up little pieces of bread.
- Okay.
It's the only recipe I could ever master.
All righty.
Now tell me you love it.
Now you tell me.
It's horrible.
I haven't told my friends we're seeing each other.
- That doesn't count.
You have no friends.
- I have interested parties.
- Why haven't you told them?
Bullshit.
- Nothing.
- Why do you want to keep it quiet?
The truth is, I wasn't sure why I wanted to keep the fact that I was seeing Big again so under wraps.
All I knew is that it felt somehow illicit.
I didn 't even want to be caught waking up there.
That morning at 7:00 a.
M as I walked the Walk of Shame back to my apartment
Miranda, oh my god! -
- Teeth cleaning.
- I like to get it over with. How's Ethan?
Still?
Maybe it's a force of habit.
No, you deserve his undivided attention.
Laundry day.
- Bye, sweetie.
I felt horrible.
I had never lied to Miranda before.
But I was embarrassed to admit that I was seeing Big again.
The truth was, I was cheating on her and all my friends with Mr.
Big.
That afternoon, Samantha got very personal with her new trainer, Thor.
And then to Samantha's surprise and delight Thor kept right on shaving.
Really.
It's very creative.
Sort of like X marks the spot.
You know what? Can somebody get that? I'll be out in a sec.
Actually, no. I need help.
This is embarrassing.
I got a new diaphragm and it's stuck.
Since last night.
I'm either gonna have to make an emergency visit to my gynecologist or someone's gonna have to help me.
It's something that started again a few weeks ago. I don't know if it's real so I didn't want to say anything.
It's Big.
Not really.
Maybe sometimes.
I don't know. I'm not sure they are, but it kind of feels okay.
We've got this physical, chemical kind of connection that's hard to shake. So lay off, okay? -
- Maybe.
I'm really not in the mood to see a movie anymore.
I couldn't sleep at all that night. The problem was, my friends were right.
Falling into this casual thing with Big, without a sense of what happened or where it was going, suddenly felt like a huge mistake.
The next morning, Charlotte attended brunch at the home of Patty Aston the ex-wife of a Hollywood television producer.
If power lesbians represented Manhattan 's chicest new social hive Charlotte was about to meet their queen bee.
Later that afternoon, following a particularly grueling workout with Thor Samantha decided to take a relaxing steam.
That day at the gym Samantha discovered that lightning does indeed strike twice.
That evening, Miranda was treated to a double bill.
Nanook of the North at Alice Tully Hall and Steady as She Blows at Ethan Watson's Porn Palace.
That night, for the first time ever, Big took me out dancing.
It was like he knew I needed to talk to him and decided to make it as difficult as possible.
Our attraction, or addiction, or whatever, was strong.
But I knew I had to be stronger.
Does this mean we're seeing each other again? Officially?
That is an infuriating response.
"Officially" means officially.
You know, for real.
Just answer me this: Why did we break up?
You didn't say what I wanted to hear.
I wanted to tell him I was afraid he could never love me the way I wanted to be loved.
I was afraid that he didn't really have the capacity to love anyone but himself.
I was afraid that, given the chance, he'd break my heart again.
But I cheated and just said I guess I was afraid.
Did you cry?
And there it was.
I guess we were back together officially.
Whatever that means.
There are over seven million people in New York not including houseguests.
Visitors are a vital part of the city's economy.
Most single people in Manhattan do not buy furniture or hang pictures until the arrival of an out-of-towner.
That's a great couch.
Where'd it come from?
Everything in Miranda's new apartment was hand-picked, finished and arranged by Charlotte's friend, Madeline Dunn, an up-and-coming interior designer.
I've been looking for one of those.
This is a sofa bed?
Jeremy was an old friend of Miranda's who'd been in London writing for The Economist.
He was coming to New York to scope out the job situation.
Miranda suggested he be her houseguest, because his e-mails, always entertaining had started to border on flirtatious.
Meanwhile, I had become a frequent houseguest of Big's.
Do you have a spare toothbrush I could use?
I'll bring you a new one.
There's only one pink brush head and Big was giving his to me.
It was the most encouraging moment so far in our relationship.
The next night, Jeremy arrived.
He was more adorable than Miranda remembered.
Especially when he said
Miranda found herself in the situation every woman dreams of She was on a truly great first date.
Unfortunately, it was somebody else's.
I was at the same restaurant A week later, Miranda threw Jeremy a going away party.
Apparently, the only thing going away was Miranda's dream.
At the least, she owes you a mortgage payment.
Or you could be dating someone for a year and be thrilled to get an electric toothbrush head.
What apartment isn't lucky for Samantha?
It's not like musical chairs.
That night, I needed a little reality check. I was just at this party and two people who met a week ago announced their engagement.
I don't know. Isn't that a bit shocking?
These people think they're soul mates.
Several times.
- Do you believe in love at first sight?
I'm serious.
I don't know, a top, strapless.
It's denim.
Were you asleep when I called?
- Sorry.
I started to wonder.
In a city as cynical as New York is it still possible to believe in love at first sight?
A bride four weeks from her wedding doesn't have time to have a coffee.
So, I joined Madeline for a mind-boggling hour in the presence of absolute certainty.
- She's thrilled.
- A poem about love.
How can you say no to somebody who wants you to be involved in their wedding?
Why did I agree to this? I write about sex, not love. What do I know about love?
It all seemed so familiar. She was having a déjà fuck.
So it was kind of a reunion.
Toto, we're not in single digits anymore.
That's lovely. Can I use that in my poem?
For some reason, this whirlwind wedding was extremely stressful for everyone but the bride and groom.
The next night, I made the mistake of telling Big about the poem.
- Okay, thanks.
It's not supposed to be fun.
This is somebody's wedding.
A wedding is serious to some people.
It doesn't matter. You're not going.
Things with Big were good.
He was going with me to a wedding.
Can I just say, "Wow.
" I need a few minutes.
They're not my friends and your name's on the invitation, too.
- Yes. It was my first time to get something other than, "Carrie Bradshaw and Guest.
I don't know. Madeline must've asked Charlotte.
Whatever, if you don't want to sign it's not a big deal.
Samantha could always be counted on to take life's lemons and make them into Spanish fly.
- Do you know where the gifts go?
Inside, looking bored.
Should I be bothered by the fact he wouldn't sign the card?
That would've put him over the edge.
Charlotte wasn't kidding about the dress.
It was hard not to notice her.
All her life, Charlotte had imagined doing exactly that with someone like Martin.
While Miranda was feeling invisible, I was feeling far too visible.
I'm in the program? - I barely know the bride and groom.
I'm between the vows and the fish course.
I better find Big.
Can you leave the guest book unattended?
The ceremony was short and sweet, just like the engagement.
Shit.
As I made my way to the microphone, I could only think of one thing Dead Woman Walking.
"His hello was the end of her endings "Her laugh was their first step down the aisle "His hand would be hers to hold forever "His forever was as simple as her smile" Suddenly, it hit me.
Two people were committing to a life together and I couldn't even get a guy to be on a card with me.
"He said she was what was missing "She said instantly she knew "She was a question to be answered "And "His answer was, 'I do"' I had no choice but to embrace the moment and try to pass off my tears as tears of joy for the happy couple.
What, are they on the Evelyn Wood plan, too?
You missed my poem and most of the reception.
There's nothing like a slow dance to make you forgive and forget.
I'll be at the bar where people are drinking.
And a Scotch straight up.
Can we not talk about the poem?
Big took a call during my poem.
It's not important to him.
Nothing is important to him.
I'll help. What street do you want to stand in?
What are you giving them?
Even while on the verge of breaking the land speed record for relationships Charlotte took her duties as bridesmaid very seriously.
It was all so romantic.
The bed, the rose petals the bed Technically, it wasn't a third date but they'd already had dinner and been dancing.
Twenty minutes later, Charlotte worried she'd made a rookie mistake by sleeping with a man she might marry.
But something wonderful happened.
Suddenly, it was clear to Charlotte that Martin wouldn't take her side now or after three or four kids, or ever.
I'm sorry, I had to help Miranda put the gifts into the van.
Have they even cut the cake yet?
If you want to go, go.
You wouldn't even sign the card.
I'm afraid we don't want the same things.
I want someone who's going to be with me until the end of a wedding.
You will?
Congratulations, you lucked out. Get us some cake.
I want to say goodbye to my friends.
- Big and I are leaving.
He's crossed his pain threshold and he's carrying me along.
Okay girls. See you tomorrow.
Some people know they're meant to be together.
I knew I was meant to go home and have cake in bed with Big.
Maybe we're more the fuzzy glove types.
Once upon a second time around in a mythical land between Carmine and Mulberry streets two mere mortals were having a wonderful time.
You've never called me your girlfriend before.
- Not funny, Mr.
Sambuca.
A regular?
I felt like I was in heaven.
Meanwhile across town, Miranda was in hell
or its modern day equivalent: The comedy club.
Alan Miller was a divorced architect she met in aisle three at the Food Emporium.
They immediately bonded over a shared hatred of designer croutons.
" It's amazing how many of them walk among us.
Only recognizable by their slightly larger heads.
- In the rain!
It just is. I can't explain it.
I can, but you're so scary right now, I won't.
It's just a feeling.
Something shifted Maybe we both know that if we came together again it must be for a reason. Why is that so hard to believe?
That afternoon, I got to thinking about myths and relationships. Heroes, boyfriends, Cyclopses, divorced guys.
Are they really that different? The primitive Greeks clung desperately to myths to explain the random hopelessness of their miserable lives.
Do modern day singles need modern day myths just to help us get through our random and sometimes miserable relationships? What about Big and me? After what seemed like an eternity of not quite fitting together, we suddenly fit.
Had the relationship God smiled? Or was that something I desperately needed to believe? Are we willing to believe anything to date? While Samantha had little belief in the idea of happily ever after she had a strong belief in the idea of a smart cocktail at the end of the work day.
Samantha, a Cosmopolitan and Donald Trump.
You don't get more New York than that.
A bottle of their best champagne later Samantha had learned that Ed was single, available and a millionaire many, many times over.
Fifty?
Fifty?
How old, fifty? Sixty? - Is he on Medicare?
- Are you serious?
I wasn't aware that Jean Georges had an early bird special.
Would that include bedroom fun?
Are you telling me that you are seriously capable of having sex with a senior?
" It was pure urban legend.
Alligators in the sewer, pets in the microwave and now an old man and Samantha.
That is a piece of veal.
In every myth, there comes a point when the mere mortals are given a test.
The way they respond usually determines whether they find paradise or are tied to a big rock for all eternity.
I have a huge request.
I want you to know my friends better.
I want them to know you better.
They've never really spent time with you and you're so funny and cute.
I want us all to have dinner Saturday night at Denial. Denial was a very popular Manhattan hot spot.
Apparently, everyone in Manhattan wanted to be "in Denial.
Why are you suddenly so
- Yes. Why are you so cute? Hello?
Didn't you get the message I left on your machine an hour ago?
I'm fine.
I'm at Big's.
Well, he got this veal.
Well, he wanted to make me dinner.
I can't get into that right now.
Could you put Miranda on, please?
No.
They did a little more than talk.
After work they went back to her place where Steve, the bartender served Miranda two orgasms, straight up.
Three dinners and two extravagant lunches later Ed invited Samantha over to his townhouse.
Up until now, she would never have believed she would consider a relationship with an older man.
Bu there was something about Ed.
After an impressive six-course dinner Ed put the moves on Samantha.
Ed's moves were from a different dating time.
Moves she had heard of or seen in old movies but moves she never thought she'd experience firsthand.
Samantha was suddenly living her own urban relationship myth.
The woman who stopped for a cocktail after work and lived happily ever after.
For 10 to 12 years, tops.
In the dark, she learned that all cats not only look the same but felt the same. Ed's lips were not the lips of an older man.
Ed's touch was not the touch of an older man.
Unfortunately Ed's ass was the ass of an older man.
She told him it was a bad reaction to the shellfish from dinner.
Saturday afternoon, Miranda was at home enjoying a cup of coffee and her New York Times when fate came knocking.
At 8:15, I arrived at Big's.
One quick drink and we'd be out the door.
I told myself all day it was just another dinner with friends.
But, as I stood waiting, in my new, very favorite dress I realized it meant a lot more.
You're not properly attired to meet my friends, mister.
Hop to it.
But my friends are expecting you.
Sure. I was afraid if I looked up into his eyes I'd turn to stone.
How could I have let myself believe things would be different the second time around? I'd never heard of a myth in which a self-centered, 42-year-old baby magically transformed into a grown man that you could bring out in public.
I'm not sure, he's coming from work. I didn't have the strength to tell them about my fallen hero.
Not without a cocktail.
I figured as long as I was "in Denial," I might as well stay there.
- Maybe we should get a table for four.
I didn't know if I had the heart to tell Charlotte that "happily ever after" really was just a myth.
- You remember my friends?
Seeing Big show up for me shook Miranda's lack of belief system to the very core.
Just like that, Miranda left Denial.
From that night on, promiscuous women everywhere would tell the tale of the one-night stand that turned into a relationship.
As for Big and me
That was the night we stopped being a myth and started becoming real.
They say that the women in New York are the most beautiful women in the world.
Which explains why men in New York spend all their time looking at them.
The city is a veritable playground for men's roving eyes.
Unfortunately, they need both of them looking straight ahead to survive.
This New York woman was pretty happy. I was seeing Big again.
Unfortunately, my New York guy was still seeing other women.
-If it's so small, he should be able to stop.
It's part of their genetic code, like farting.
-You're gonna put me off my pretzel.
I know, but you can subtly manipulate and cajole.
-I already like the hair and wardrobe.
I'm not asking for perfection, I'm just looking for slight alterations.
While Samantha and I discussed the theory of change...
...Miranda was going through it for real.
She had a new apartment, a new boyfriend...
...and a new dating schedule that was killing her.
Everything was great about Steve except for one thing.
They had completely opposite schedules.
Steve had all the time in the world in the morning.
Miranda got right up at 7:00. Unfortunately, Steve did, too.
The only thing she liked inside her in the morning...
...was the cup of take-out coffee she drank on the way to the subway.
That night, in a bed across town...
...Charlotte was seeing a lot of Mike, a cute, but feared restaurant critic...
...famous for his patented five-whisk rating system.
But just when Charlotte had become comfortable with the penis...
...she got a very unexpected surprise.
It was not okay. The only uncut version of anything Charlotte had ever seen...
...was the original Gone with the Wind.
-You've never seen an uncircumcised one?
Actually, it is. Something like 85% men aren't circumcised.
-It's a penis, not Godzilla.
You're practically a virgin.
Maybe his parents were hippies and didn't believe in it.
-I think you can pay people to do that now.
-Infinity.
That night, Big and I went out to celebrate absolutely nothing.
-No, thank ya.
Listen, my editor called me today and she's....
-Yes, I was.
I didn't have the guts to tell Big that he was actually kind of bothering me.
They won't tell you the truth.
No one is gonna say to your face they hate your cigar.
You are very arrogant.
Maybe Big was right.
Maybe we were at that inevitable point in the relationship...
...when all those little things you loved about the other person become huge liabilities.
And just then, a huge liability walked by.
I hate that cigar.
New York City is all about change.
New Yorkers change their haircuts, their politics, even their friends in the blink of an eye.
If change was so easy, why was it so hard for Big?
Was I banging my head against the wall, thinking I can get him to stop and notice me?
Did I have to change my expectations or was it possible...Can you change a man?
Meanwhile, Charlotte was about to discover that some men can change.
Apparently, Samantha was wrong. Some men could budge an inch.
In Mike's case, it may have been more like an inch and a half.
The next morning, Miranda was getting her usual wake-up call.
Twelve hours later, Steve went to work.
About the same time, we went out to our favorite bar...
...which on Saturdays changes into drag queen bingo.
I'm jealous. Big won't even spend the night at my place.
-What you have is real intimacy.
You don't have to spin if you're having sex.
Miranda's right.
Why is it the woman who always has to change and never the guy?
That would be a happy hour.
-The Shar-Pei?
Please tell me that we're not invited to the Briss.
Brad was a semi-professional hockey player...
...Samantha had dated a few years back.
Apparently the only thing he was checking these days were his pants at the door.
Jake has two mommies.
Two hours later, I was supposed to meet Big at his place.
Two and a half hours later, he showed up.
You're a half hour late. Your doorman thinks I'm a hooker.
-Not funny. I hate waiting here for you.
-You know what? I'm gonna go.
I'm pissed.
You know, if you gave me a key, I could wait upstairs next time.
Or you can stay at my place sometimes. It's easy to pick my locks.
That night, something else changed. Neither of us wanted to make love.
If this was all I was ever gonna get out of Big, was it enough for me?
Then at 3:00 a.m., somewhere between sleep and waking...
...I got my answer.
-Damn it!
-No!
-My God!
-You knocked me out of bed!
-You didn't even know I was here!
-I'm sorry.
-Where you going?
-Wait, would you just let me explain?
But I couldn't sleep.
And at 4:00 a.m., I decided he couldn't sleep either.
It's ice for your face.
Okay, I know I've lost a little of my power here.
I'm pretty sure that most women's magazines...
...would say that what I just did was a very bad idea.
But the thing is, the other night wasn't just about the cigar.
I hate that you look at other women.
I hate that I don't have a key to your place. You've never spent the night at my place.
You can't even make space for me in your bed.
And it's not your fault because I never say it.
So now I punched you. So now I have to say it.
So now I'm gonna say it.
I feel like I'm back in your life and nothing has really changed.
I know you can't change a man, and you definitely can't change a man like you.
But...I still want...something to change a little bit...for me.
I'm gonna go.
-Does it hurt?
Look, I'm sure there are things you don't like about me.
That was one thing I liked about Big. He definitely knew when to shut up.
The next night, Charlotte took Mike out for a post-operative scotch.
Much later that night, bolstered by coffee...
...Miranda decided to perform a 2:00 a.m. seduction.
Miranda had never felt less like a successful lawyer in her life.
Even though she'd won her case, she'd also been left with all the damages.
A week later, Charlotte finally got her chance to break in the new merchandise.
It was like her birthday and Christmas rolled into one.
Charlotte never saw Mike again.
She realized you can take the Shar-Pei out of the penis...
...but you could never take the dog out of the man.
A few days later, I realized you could change a man.
You could change him into not calling you.
Hi. Look at that.
Sorry.
Come in.
You're suing me, right?
...and you never get’em back.
-I should hit you more often.
-What?
-You do?
-That's it?
What are you gonna give me for the oranges?
-Yep.
-It could.
That night, for the first time, Big spent the night at my place.
I realized that neither of us would ever fundamentally change...
...but we were talking about it.
And maybe that was the biggest change of all.
Across town, it was 2:00 a.m. and Miranda was no closer to getting sleep.
It was right then, that Miranda finally slowed down and gave into Steve.
That night, Miranda and Steve made love.
And they did it again in the morning.
Miranda was an hour late for work and didn't even notice.
So maybe you can't change a man...
...but once in a blue moon, you can change a woman.
Here are some things I love about New York: That week in spring when it's warm, but not hot and the trees are just beginning to bloom.
Men in suits.
Three papers and 12 gossip columns.
It's easy for me to say, "I love you, New York.
" It's not so easy to say, "I love you, Mr.
Big.
" The first time I realized I actually loved Big was over toast and coffee one morning.
Nothing. The first time I felt like saying it was the night he took me to the ballet.
And he hates the ballet.
They were not.
You know what? What? I love your hair like that.
And then there was the time I never expected to say it.
Last Friday night at approximately 7:20 p.
M Big was picking me up to take me out to dinner.
I just have to change my shoes.
If we grab a cab on Madison, we can be there in five minutes.
What's this for?
It was just wrong.
It was wrong.
I didn't know what to say except: I love you.
Note that I did not say, "I love the purse.
He just sort of reacted stunned for a moment and then he said:
" It was a very deliberate and distinct "you.
Yeah, but we both know I did. I've laid down the gauntlet.
He has to say "I love you" back or I have to break up with him.
I didn't put an expiration date on it. It's got the shelf life of a dairy product, it'll curdle in a week.
That's very comforting right now.
It seemed that Miranda, love's greatest skeptic had recently experienced a romantic epiphany.
She was dating a bartender who worshiped her.
Miranda was so crazy about him in return she let him take her out to dinner.
But only to places she knew he could afford.
For the first time, Steve took Miranda back to his place.
That evening Miranda experienced her first pangs of yuppie guilt.
He can make you cum, then make you a Cosmopolitan.
Wait a minute. Rich men date not-so-rich women all the time.
Look at me and Big.
It's not about money, it's about compatibility.
It's the Millennium, sweetie. We don't say "working class" anymore.
Okay Marie-Antoinette, we get the picture.
Thank you.
It seems that Samantha was dating Harvey Terkel a real estate investor who had just made a killing in the market turning Chelsea sweatshops into luxury co-ops for the upwardly trendy.
I wondered, was New York really any different from New Delhi? Had our class system been replaced by a caste system? And if so, can we date outside our caste? That night, Big took me out for a romantic dinner.
I could smell it coming the way you can smell a thunderstorm right before it hits.
A mere two days after I had said, "I love you" Big had found his own way to say "I love you" to me.
Delicioso.
That became the first night I wanted to tell Big "I hate you".
The next afternoon, Charlotte made the acquaintance of a member of the very highest caste.
A caste that from coast to coast, rich and poor everyone deferred to and honored without question the movie star.
Where is he now?
It's adorable. Charlotte, listen to me, get out of there immediately.
While Charlotte began to enjoy the perks of celebrity Samantha discovered Harvey Terkel came with some nice perks of his own.
While Samantha didn't believe in having servants she had no problem dating a man who did.
She knew it might take some adjusting, but she could get used to it.
It was then Samantha realized that Sum was not so servile after all.
That afternoon during her lunch break, Miranda took Steve shopping.
That Saturday, Big took me to a cocktail party at the home of Sarina Bush Great purse, fabulous.
an Upper East Side hostess famous for her husband's money and a close friendship with Tina Brown.
I knew her 10 years ago when she was famous for her father's money and a close friendship with her drug dealer.
God, I hate Park Avenue.
It's like being in a foreign country.
As we walked through the room of women clutching their bejeweled swan, kitten and asparagus purses I realized to my horror that not only did Big not love me he had absolutely no idea who I was.
Red wine, please.
Vodka on the rocks. No brown food? I think we've encountered a mutant strain of Upper East Side anal.
I'm sure she's fabulous until you spill something.
It's like she's trying to cultivate an eccentricity so people won't notice she's completely devoid of personality.
- I'm not, I'm being myself.
Hey
That's where I'll be.
Just like that, I was cast out of the fancy party.
That same evening Charlotte found herself the newest member of Wiley Ford's entourage.
It was then Samantha realized she wasn 't so dim, that Sum.
That night, I realized that relationships had a caste system of their own.
There's the person who says, "I love you.
" And there's the person who never responds.
Jeremiah, What are you doing here?
- Good.
God, no.
- Whatever. Jeremiah was a famous downtown performance artist who was best known uptown as: "Kid, give me another scotch and soda.
" We had engaged in a mild flirtation for years.
Some guy.
- Is that real?
How far down does that go?
Holy Moley
Shit.
First of all, he's not a caterer. He's a well-known performance artist.
Because it was offensive.
I'm embarrassing you? If you'd joined me on the terrace like a gentleman we wouldn't be having this conversation.
You go, I'm having a good time.
And across town, Miranda was late for the firm dinner.
An hour later, adrift in a sea of Italian wool crepe Miranda wondered what was really so wrong with corduroy, anyway.
In the space of one evening, Charlotte had gone from girlfriend to groupie.
Charlotte realized, another moment at the top and she would have become an Untouchable.
"Jeremiah was a bullfrog "Was a good friend of mine "I never understood a single word he said "But I helped him drink his wine" After Jeremiah got fired, we celebrated downtown with a couple of pitchers of Margaritas.
"Joy to you and me" That was the last thing I remembered that night. "If I were the king of the world"
Samantha realized there was only room for one woman in Harvey's life.
Jesus.
Okay.
We're great. I love you, too.
I'll call you later, okay? Did we?
I didn't think so.
I felt like I was the lowest of the low.
I never told Mr.
Big.
I figured everything before "I love you"just doesn't count.
There is nothing more humiliating for a woman than a visit to the gynecologist
unless it's having to tell your gynecologist you don 't need the pill anymore.
Just when Miranda thought she'd hit rock bottom she discovered a new geological layer of humiliation.
- The left one still believes.
Here.
I'm going to get this.
I'm spending the night at Big's.
Big is weird about stuff.
Sweetie - It's not a land run, it's a relationship.
With Big, I think it's best to walk softly and carry a big purse.
Isn't it a little expensive disposing of lingerie every time you sleep with a guy?
Maybe it was Samantha's!
Half my music collection was left behind by past boyfriends.
- I don't.
I consider it a parting gift.
"Thanks for playing.
Here's Hootie and the Blowfish.
" The next morning at Big's, I started to think.
If the things we leave behind become the archeological relics of our sexual history I should be able to leave something.
Ancient man left cave drawings to prove they existed.
I left a Hair Pro 1200.
And I didn't stop at that.
Man may have discovered fire but women discovered how to play with it.
Charlotte was making history as well.
Tired of the Neanderthals she'd been dating she spent her night with a gay friend who catered parties for the gallery: Dessert chef, Stephan Bodean.
What happened? What do you think?
It's not that simple anymore. The real question is: Is he a straight gay man, or is he a gay straight man? The gay straight man was a new strain of heterosexual male spawned in Manhattan as the result of overexposure to fashion exotic cuisine, musical theater and antique furniture.
Unless he's a straight gay man in denial.
Isn't anybody going to notice my purse?
No, but it is quite small and panty-free.
No, but I did leave a hair brush, a hair dryer, razors tampons and eye-makeup remover.
And something else.
For the first time at Big's, I did a number two.
I think it's a good sign that I feel comfortable enough with Big to do a number two.
It's tough in New York.
Small apartments, one bathroom.
You can hear everything.
Dominic Delmonico was a publishing magnate and the first and only man Samantha really loved.
He wined and dined her, set the bar for hot sex then dumped her for an Icelandic supermodel named Anka.
Once, on the cover of Fortune, he'd fallen to tabloid level due to a messy public divorce.
- He broke her heart.
Imagining Samantha with a broken heart was more confusing to Charlotte than a French kiss from a gay man.
- Hiya, handsome.
- What's this?
Thanks.
It's like I had one too many items and I was being kicked out of the relationship express lane.
What is it about Big's apartment? Nothing ever sticks.
It's like Teflon for women.
I meant to leave that stuff at your apartment.
For one thing, I don't wake up looking like this. I actually need stuff to look like this and it would be nice not to have to carry it around all day with me like a nomad.
It's just a few things.
And you can leave stuff here.
- Not a lot of stuff.
Just like, you know, if you want to shave in the morning.
I don't know, socks.
Never mind what I want. What do you want?
No, really, in your mind what is the ideal living situation for two people in a relationship?
- And what is that?
- Like Woody and Mia.
Ever since Woody Allen described waving to Mia Farrow across the Park single men in Manhattan had yearned for that kind of separate togetherness.
I felt like the last dinosaur.
Was I the one who needed to adapt? Was my view of a relationship extinct? I couldn 't stop thinking about it.
This is a city where gay men are so out, they're in where women are so chronically single, ovaries may be the next vestigial organ.
We can have anything delivered anytime.
We can have our dogs walked, our clothes cleaned, our food cooked.
Who needs a husband when you have a doorman? Are New Yorkers evolving past relationships?
" So you don't need a man, but do you still want one?
I can't decide whether you represent our future or our demise.
- Sweetie! It took you a year to get over him.
He treated you like shit.
- Why do you go out with him again?
- I'm leaning toward demise.
- As long as you've got a plan.
Samantha's revenge fantasy, like all her fantasies, was even better live.
Since Stephan hadn't come out Charlotte accepted his invitation to stay in.
Charlotte wanted to be open-minded but Stephan seemed to be making it as hard as possible. Meanwhile, Samantha was making Dominic as hard as possible.
This was the moment Samantha had waited years and years for. What was another couple hours?
No, I was out shopping. My relationship is at a standstill, so instead, I'm evolving my look. How did it go with Dominic?
That wasn't part of the plan.
In order to survive two decades of dating in New York Samantha had become a powerful hybrid: The ego of a man trapped in the body of a woman.
Charlotte feared the opposite was true of Stephan.
She still needed help classifying her find, so she brought in a team of experts.
- Hi.
- It's just straightened. Have we met?
- And her freeloading friends.
" - How is he in bed?
- That night, Miranda went out with Joseph Adler a labor-relations lawyer who'd been after her since the firm retreat.
She'd refused him twice before, but since she was down to her last ovary Miranda decided she was in no position to eliminate men on the basis of hair plugs.
Miranda went off the hormones.
Not because of what Joseph said, but because she was only 33 she still had her left ovary and she wasn 't ready to settle out of court.
Maybe someday there would be eggs in her freezer.
But not yet.
Meanwhile Charlotte decided to stop trying to figure out her creature of mystery and just enjoy.
Charlotte was relieved and delighted to discover Stephan was definitely straight, or at least a gay straight man.
Frankly, after two orgasms, who the hell cares? The next morning, it dawned on Samantha that her desire for revenge was not as strong as her desire for Dominic.
As she watched history repeat itself Samantha realized she couldn 't do what Dominic did because she hadn 't evolved past having feelings.
In a way, that was nice to know.
At that moment Charlotte realized her masculine side wasn 't evolved enough for a man whose feminine side was as highly evolved as Stephan 's.
I spent the night at Big's for the first time since my stuff was kicked out of the nest.
- Home.
It's where my hair dryer is. I may have to dry my hair.
I'm wearing it straight, in case you didn't notice.
I just have to make sure I didn't leave anything else.
Suddenly, I realized I didn't have to worry about leaving something behind because I was there.
Okay.
I'll stay a little longer.
But I'm leaving this underwear here.
Okay it was a small step for mankind, but it was a really big step for Big.
New York City restaurants are always looking for the next new angle to grab that elusive and somewhat jaded Manhattan palate.
Last year, it was "Fusion-Cajun.
" Last month, it was "Mussels from Brussels.
" And tonight, it's "S & M.
" Samantha's PR firm was hired to do the opening party for La Douleur Exquise.
Translation: The Exquisite Pain.
Of course, we were all invited.
This is what happens when the Mayor shuts down the sex shops.
Pops up in your cuisine.
Stanford!
I think it was the weekend you spent at the Barneys warehouse sale.
The summer I worked at Howard Johnsons, I wore an orange hat.
It was lovely to see you all.
And remember ladies: Whipping on the first date is considered forward.
No can do.
Big's flying to Paris tomorrow for business and I wanna say goodbye.
Laugh, it's a joke.
I wasn't sure if it was the cap, the crop, or me, but it worked. Meanwhile, at a fetish across town, Stanford Blanche had a secret sex life.
A very active secret sex life on the Internet as "Rick9Plus.
" It all started innocently enough as a goof on a lonely Friday night.
But pretty soon he was logging in hours and hours on his favorite website.
It was a comfort to know that others shared his underwear fetish.
Sometimes as many as 2,000 hits a day.
No sooner had Rick9Plus entered the chat room that he got a message from his favorite on-screen pal, "Bigtool4U.
" Some fetishes can only flourish behind closed doors in the very late night hours on a laptop.
While others are out in the broad daylight where everyone can see them.
Charlotte, like every other normal woman in Manhattan, had a thing for shoes.
While one woman was uptown eyeing her artful new sandal another was downtown eyeing Art of Scandal: The Life and Times of Isabella Stewart Gardner.
Miranda was obsessed with reading historical biographies.
In fact she spent all last weekend in bed with Philip of Spain.
And right after Miranda picked up Elizabeth I by Jasper Riley Jack picked up Miranda.
Big and I stayed in bed all morning which gave us just enough time for coffee and some last minute details.
I'm gonna miss you.
There.
I helped.
Before I forget, Charlotte wants to do a share in the Hamptons.
Are we thinking about it or should I go in on that? -
- Why, not a big fan of the $40 crab salad?
For how long a while?
Wait! Wait, wait, wait.
How long have you known?
When did you plan on telling me?
I wanted to kill him! He's standing there giving me the "what's-the-big-problem" eyes.
I don't understand, like it's my problem.
- It's not about that.
It's about the fact that I wasn't even a factor in his decision-making process.
Just tell me what's going on! Is that too much to ask? "Carrie, I'm thinking about going to France for the rest of my life!" - Am I right?
One minute he's all over me, and the next he's pushing me away.
And I just cannot believe this is happening, again!
Why do I keep doing this to myself? I must be a masochist or something.
That's when I first realized it.
I was in an S & M relationship with Mr.
Big.
Excuse me.
In love relationships, there is a fine line between pleasure and pain.
In fact, it's a common belief that a relationship without pain is a relationship not worth having.
To some, pain implies growth.
But how do we know when the growing pains stop and the "pain-pains" take over? Are we masochists or optimists, if we continue to walk that fine line? When it comes to relationships how do you know when enough is enough?
On Tuesday night, Miranda and Jack had dinner.
In the biography of her life this would go down as the best first date in history.
Just when Miranda thought she could read Jack perfectly he opened an entire new chapter.
A chapter entitled: "I like to have sex in places I can get caught.
" With my one man out of town in Paris I found time to have drinks with my other man.
- Who am I to judge anyone? I had bangs in the 80s.
And this would be the nonjudgment part?
No, you didn't!
I think it shows a great deal of restraint. You could have been "Rick11.
Let's figure this out. What do you know about him?
My God.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, Rick.
Where does he want to meet you?
Makes sense.
Tell me why you want to go.
I say go.
Have a naughty little adventure.
Be safe, have fun.
Well, are you Rick9Plus?
After Rick9Plus went home I decided I was just drunk enough to call Big.
It's me.
What are you doing?
So, you're funny in France?
I would like to know how you could even think of going to Paris and not even think about discussing it with me. I think about you all the time.
What's he doing? What's he thinking? But you, no.
When were you planning to tell me? Are you still there?
Okay, because I think about you all the time.
No.
Correction, correction.
I think about us all the time.
It's never a good time for you.
You're always sleeping, or you're going You're always going, "Taxi!" Then you're on a plane to France for maybe a year.
You're a freaking old man.
You should be thinking about somebody else.
This is not fake us.
This is real.
Even if you don't know it, it is.
I am a woman.
A wo-man!
This isn't about cocktails.
This is about basic human decency.
This is about taking responsibility.
It's about being a grown-up.
It's about being a man.
You better get used to it because if you move, this is how our relationship will be.
You'll be sleeping when I'm eating and I'll be sleeping when -- Shit.
Shit.
Are you still there?
Fine, hang up.
Don't call me when I'm sleeping because I have a job here too, you know.
Shit.
Even through my Cosmopolitan haze, I knew I had gone too far.
A few days later on the way home, Charlotte couldn't help but notice a gorgeous pair of Italian slingbacks in the window.
When a shoe fetish meets a foot fetish, all reason goes out the shop window.
I am way overreacting to this whole France situation.
I think Charlotte's right, there are ways to work this out.
I completely lost my shit to Big on the phone. And I realized how close this whole thing is to really blowing up.
Yes, it's painful sometimes, but it's worth it, you know? The guy has to go there for work.
And what is so awful about spending a week here and there with your boyfriend in Paris?
- That's lovely.
How very "George Michael" of you.
Excuse me, Miss Charlotte, what is happening south of your ankles? -
I love them! $500?
- How much?
- And where is he?
Sweetie, this is New York City, nobody loves anything that much.
The second she said it out loud, she knew what she had to do.
Charlotte looked down at the exquisite shoes.
The smell of leather was intoxicating.
Charlotte felt like Cinderella. Cinderella in a dirty, kinky, freaked out, storybook, parallel universe.
Big arrived on the 9:00 p.
m.
Flight.
I was at his door by 10:00 to welcome him home in style.
Bonjour, voila le French hat, Voila, le French fry.
And it doesn't stop there.
I have le Big Mac, and le Filet de Fish.
It's an apology for being le bitch. I've been thinking about this.
We can make this work.
We'll do le phone sex.
If things get really bad, then I'll move to Paris for a while and write Le Sex in le City.
- Which one?
Why would I move to Paris if it wasn't for you?
- I am such an idiot! -
I'm running around town in a beret, buying your greasy food and you don't even care if I'm in your life! -
- No! I'm so tired of calming down!
Fine, go to Paris.
Then what happens to us next year when you decide you just have to go to Brazil?
This isn't about work. This is about us getting closer and you getting so freaked out that you have to put an ocean between us.
Why is it so hard for you to factor me into your life in any real way?
Maybe I can't do this anymore.
I bet you do.
You said you loved me.
Then why does it hurt so fucking much? On the way home I was furious.
Not with Big, with myself.
I was the real sadist.
He might be the one with the whip, but I was the one who tied myself up.
Tied myself to a man who was terrified of being tied down.
And downtown, in the Meatpacking District another terrified man was preparing to face his fears.
Stanford panicked. He hadn 't been seen in his underwear by a roomful of men since seventh grade gym class.
So, Rick9Plus undressed. It would have been rude to stand up Bigtool4U.
To her surprise, Miranda had no trouble getting Jack to agree to make love in his bedroom that night.
Suddenly, her fear of his fetish ended.
Miranda realized that Jack's excitement wasn't about getting caught.
It was about her and she really began to let loose.
Something she'd been unable to do outside.
At first, Stanford thought he'd be shunned for lack of the popular six-pack abs. But then
Stanford Blanche had never felt more special.
Stanford learned that sometimes a brief encounter can be quite fulfilling.
I went to bed at 1:00.
I was still wide-awake at 2:30.
There were no words left.
We'd said them all.
After we made love, I knew it was over.
Did I ever really love Big or was I addicted to the pain? The exquisite pain of wanting someone so unattainable.
Go to Paris. I'm not gonna come.
Let's not pretend we're something we're not.
It's okay.
I wanted to go to him, but I felt like I was tied to the chair.
Some part of me was holding me back, knowing I had gone too far.
Reached my limit.
And just like that, I had untied myself from Mr.
Big.
I was free.
But there was nothing exquisite about it.
In a town where everyone's dying to couple up sometimes there's nothing better than being out of a relationship.
You have time to do your laundry freedom to play your favorite bad music really loudly.
But the best part of being out of a relationship: Plenty of time to catch up with your friends.
I feel sorry for Big.
I really do, because if you think about it I was the best thing that ever happened to him.
Actually, I pity him.
Because I get to walk away and be me and he has to walk away and stay him.
Who wants to be him when you can be me? I'm smart.
I'm funny.
I was this thing.
I was it.
I was this magic moment.
I was the abracadabra.
I was totally the "poof" in the relationship.
I've got more poof than he could ever have.
Sometimes, I poof just hailing a cab.
So, I guess it's better to know now so I can go poof someone else.
Someone who deserves me and not some screwed up, insecure guy who can't deal with a woman who's got her act together.
Now, I'm gonna end up deliriously happy and Big is gonna die old and alone and I pity him.
Really, I pity him.
What?
What?
- Is this an intervention?
Isn't part of the breaking up process that you get free rein to whine to your friends?
Why should I pay someone when we can talk for free and then get a drink or whatever? I don't need professional help.
I've got you guys.
Hey, I don't need therapy.
I need new friends.
Okay, I understand why you see a shrink because you're always in your head but I'm fine.
I am functioning.
Besides, I don't really To be honest, I just don't buy the whole shrink thing.
It's a slippery slope.
First you go once a week, then three times a week and next thing you know you start sentences, "My shrink says"
Therapy is just so self-indulgent.
Ancient man didn't need shrinks to survive.
Were my friends right? Had I crossed the line from pleasantly neurotic into annoyingly troubled? I decided to seek my own professional help.
The fact was, Stanford was right.
You do not.
- That's sick.
No, Miranda's shrink referred me to one.
Dr.
Ellen Greenfield.
Why does she go to a shrink?
While I was contemplating the couch, Miranda was enjoying hers.
Two nights later, she had another nocturnal rendezvous.
Soon, Miranda found herself with a nightly playmate.
A week later, I kept my date with Dr.
G, celebrity shrink.
Well, my friends can't handle me anymore.
You're like very expensive foster care.
They tell me that I talk about my ex-boyfriend too much.
But that's normal, right, after a break up?
" No, of course you don't, because you wouldn't have any patients.
You know, I have to be honest.
I'm not sure I really believe in therapy.
I'm more of a "solve your own problems" kind of gal.
Okay.
I don't know.
He was smart.
He was sexy, just totally screwed up.
He was playing all these games, and I didn't know the rules.
No, he was.
I was just along for the ride.
Well, that's a little easy, don't you think?
Okay.
Yeah.
Maybe I've dated men who were wrong for me, but who hasn't?
- What's your point?
- Maybe you are picking the wrong men.
Frankly, I think I picked the wrong therapist.
She just did not get me at all.
She thought I was a game player.
This from a woman who plays peek-a-boo with her neighbor.
At least our hands would be free to greet dignitaries and stuff.
Big and I played games.
Look where it got us.
I do not pick the wrong guys.
They pick me.
Yeah, but one of those really pretty floral scented ones.
There it was: Happy hour in the valley of lost men.
- It's sports night.
Sports night: Every female's fantasy a room full of captive heterosexual men all looking to be distracted during commercial breaks.
- We didn't order these.
- They're on the house.
It's sports night.
Ladies drink for free.
Don Seglar was a very successful importer of Mexican handbags.
He was fanatical about two things: Keeping the price of foreign labor down and the Knicks.
Which is exactly what Samantha did two hours later.
When I got home that night, I couldn't get Charlotte's words out of my head.
We spent our childhoods playing games.
Were they all just primers for the games we played as adults? Were relationships just a big chess match: Strategy moves, countermoves all designed to keep your opponent off balance until you win? Was there such a thing as an honest relationship? Or was it true? Do you have to play games to make a relationship work? I went out with this girl on Saturday night.
The next day, I reluctantly showed up for my second appointment with Dr.
G.
I was still a skeptic and I'd already read every New Yorker in the waiting room.
When you think about it, what was I getting out of this anyway? And then, at five minutes to my last scheduled hour I got my answer.
My third appointment with Dr.
G: I had come a little early to catch up on my reading.
Hi.
Carrie.
Well, I'm glad you did.
Especially since I had worn my new dress for the occasion.
Well, this New Yorker is a little behind on her reading.
Not very long, just three sessions.
What'd she give you, a cake or something?
Sure. I'd like that.
- Okay.
Maybe it was unethical making a date with Seth Robinson, photographer, in my shrink's waiting room but there was something about him.
He's a photographer.
- It wasn't a setup or anything.
Jeez, what if he's crazy?
Excuse me, but why is that on and who is Marcus?
When did we start caring about basketball?
- That's awful.
Why are you staying with him?
- Go.
Have sex.
Go! The next night, Miranda got a pleasant surprise.
Her date thought it was time they moved past peek-a-boo to playing doctor.
Miranda wanted to play fair, so she gave him a little tit for tat.
All over town, people were getting lucky.
Seth and I were having a great first date at the coffee shop.
And what about the plant? I know.
Maybe it's some sort of Dr.
G psychological test.
- Yeah.
And it needs to be watered.
- Are you sure?
You touched Dr.
G's plant?
- Well, that's sweet.
There was something about him.
I felt like I could talk to him about anything.
And in the spirit of psychological health and not playing games I decided to be honest.
I like you.
Later that week, Miranda went shopping for dinner.
Shopping quickly devolved into a game of hide and seek.
Miranda realized she was still playing with an imaginary friend just like she did when she was five.
The next day, she called her shrink for an emergency session.
Meanwhile, Sam had decided she would celebrate the end of the basketball season and the return of her sex life by watching the final Knicks game at Don 's.
The idea of lasting through another sexless season was more than Samantha could take.
So, she forfeited the game.
Meanwhile, I was getting plenty of action.
Seth and I had just come back from another amazing date.
You want to come in?
- Is that a challenge?
All right, buddy.
It's go time.
- Feeling good, my friend.
I guess that one's mine.
I believe I'm in about 20 compromising positions.
I am not gonna lose my concentration.
In no time it was "yellow pants off.
" So what do you think Dr.
G would have to say about this?
I have to tell you.
I'm not really into therapy, I think it's kind of bullshit.
- No, no! - Cross your heart.
So why are you in therapy, seriously?
I believe in therapy, this moment is called "the breakthrough.
" I pick the wrong men.
Although she'd made some good points, I stopped seeing Dr.
G immediately.
I couldn't risk the humiliation of running into Seth in the waiting room.
My friends totally understand.
I ran into my friend Skipper on the street the other day.
He was bruised and frantic.
He'd just broken up with another girl.
What did she say she thought was wrong?
Three months before that, it was a dental hygienist named Tiffany.
And last year, it was Miranda.
Not all women just the types of women you seem to be attracted to.
Those ladies don't know what they're missing and missing and missing.
Skipper's pattern was clear to both of us.
He was a sweet guy who was perpetually attracted to women who were looking for jerks.
Later that night, on a date across town Miranda was repeating a pattern of her own.
She had been dating a lawyer she met when they fought in court.
A frequent guest on MSBNC, Kevin was not just argumentative he was an anger professional.
Miranda hated how he ordered her around and told her what do every place except one.
You're just ready to wrap it around his neck.
Or maybe you should face the fact that you're attracted to angry men.
- Deviled eggs?
- And you dumped him.
Fits a pattern.
In math, randomness is considered a pattern.
And when he does, you project this huge fantasy on him setting up these enormous expectations
You put all your deviled eggs in one basket.
- Are you asking Charlotte to juggle?
But Big was an aberration.
Next time I meet a handsome, rich, emotionally unavailable 43-year-old man I'll know what to expect.
I wondered were we all just victims of conditioned responses? Doomed to repeat the same unconscious relationship patterns? Were we all, in fact, just dating the same person over and over again? I guess I have dated quite a few artists.
That night, Samantha became acquainted with the new neighbors next door.
Though she had never met them she already knew them intimately.
The idea that someone else was having great sex and flaunting it was more than she could bear.
So she decided, if you can 't join 'em beat it.
It all fit Samantha's pattern to a T having a wall between her and the person she was having sex with.
After a few weeks of not seeing Big I was beginning to fall into some familiar patterns of my own.
Staying out till 3:00 and sleeping till noon.
Ordering takeout from the same greasy Chinese and calling old friends who would always be there for me when I felt restless.
Hey John, it's Carrie.
I know.
Listen, I thought if you weren't doing anything you might want to meet for a drink after work.
How about sixish?
Perfect, I'll see you then.
That evening, at 6:30 sharp
- You, too.
Come on in.
I was just gonna open a bottle of red.
- That's okay, I've got dinner plans at 8:00.
John was as dependable a pal as a gal could ever hope for.
Fun, comfortable and easy to be with.
The kind of guy who you could shed all inhibitions and really be yourself around.
No muss, no fuss.
Great.
It's great.
- How's work with you?
How's your younger sister doing? Brother.
The one that moved to Phoenix?
- Right.
So how's he doing down there?
- Sure.
And then I realized it.
I didn't have a relationship pattern, I had a between-relationship pattern.
I always went back to John after every devastating soul-shattering, gut-wrenching break up.
He was sweet, handsome, uncomplicated.
A real shot in the arm for my sexual self esteem.
Why had I been keeping him on the bench all these years? Did I really believe a relationship had to be difficult in order to work? Do you want to have dinner Friday night?
Great.
You want to say 8:00?
And just like that, I broke my pattern.
Say it a little louder.
The lady in the last row didn't hear you.
A fuck buddy is a guy you dated once or twice and it didn't go anywhere but the sex is so great, you sort of keep him on call.
And you're guaranteed delivery within Manhattan in six hours or less.
A few moments later, emboldened by our conversation and high from too many tantric headstands Charlotte asked a man out for the first time.
I wondered if Charlotte can break her pattern and ask out every man in Manhattan why couldn 't I have a deeper relationship with a man I have shallow sex with? Wow.
I guess.
Thanks.
I wanted to tell him that he'd never actually seen me in clothes.
Do you want a glass of wine first, or
Hey, wait, wait, wait.
- I made reservations.
At a sushi restaurant.
No! I mean, God! I mean sushi Japanese food!
Yeah.
Yeah, I know.
I'm just gonna get my purse.
Like most first dates, we were off to an awkward start.
The yellow tail sashimi, two pieces of salmon sushi and a spicy tuna hand roll.
Do you like eel?
No, the sushi's so amazing here.
Why didn't you say? We could've gone someplace else.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
So you
So, if I'm lucky, I might get a whole hour next time?
I was kidding.
Maybe we should just order some sake?
We went back to my place for a quickie.
I needed to erase the stagnant memory of the past two hours.
Was it really possible that someone so stimulating in bed could be so tedious in life? Meanwhile, Samantha was actually beginning to look forward to the company of her new neighbors.
Every night, like clockwork, right after the end of the 11:00 news Samantha relished her role as the invisible guest vocalist to an unseen band.
Until one night, she wasn 't so invisible.
That Saturday, Miranda planned for us all to meet her latest fling for brunch.
Apparently, he had flung himself elsewhere.
Don't worry about it.
If it's just us, fine.
Wow, I'm impressed.
How do you conceive pulling this one off?
Charlotte had done more than break a pattern.
She had actually changed genders.
And then, just like that, she was a woman again.
What are you doing?
That evening, Charlotte set out to break her pattern.
A casual meal with Eric from yoga discovering a mutual love for long drives up Maine coasts and reruns of Nanny and the Professor.
As Charlotte began to swim in visions of family summers in Kennebunkport she realized she was late for the second shift.
While Charlotte was off to her next engagement Samantha was imagining an engagement of her own.
Later that night, Charlotte was returning from a second dinner of steamed mussels and fries with bachelor number two, an art loving commodities broker.
From that moment on, Charlotte developed a new pattern.
She made it a rule never to take advice from her friends again.
Very late that night Samantha decided to roll out the welcome mat for her new neighbors.
The musician and the dancer turned out to be a middle-aged Eastern European couple.
He played in a polka band.
She was a dancer once upon a time.
Samantha broke a pattern after all.
She decided to move her bed to the opposite wall.
Later that week, Kevin experienced a dream come true.
He was made a full partner of the law firm where he worked.
He took Miranda out to celebrate.
What? Miranda broke her pattern in a way that she had never expected.
The angry guy had turned her into a cock-eyed optimist.
There couldn't have been a more perfect moment to see Skipper for the first time since she dumped him.
Miranda had never seen him as angry as this before.
Much to her horror, she was attracted.
That's the thing about patterns.
They don 't break because you tell them to.
And a few nights later, John and I went out for a movie.
I refused to believe that a passionate sexual connection could not be translated into a meaningful friendship, at the very least.
Did you like the movie?
- No.
Isn't this the most amazing block? All these brownstones are over 100 years old.
It's like being in the New York of Edith Wharton and Henry James.
Sometimes, I can't believe how lucky I am to live right here.
What?
At that moment, I knew we only had two things in common.
Listen, I'd invite you in, but
Okay.
Goodnight.
I knew it was the last time we'd ever see each other.
Just like that I was thrown right back into my old pattern: Greasy Chinese, sleeping till noon and feeling restless.
Everyone has a worst nightmare.
For some, it's bathing-suit season.
For others, it's that your birth certificate can never be legally destroyed.
For Miranda, it was family hour at her gym.
On Sundays, her neighborhood became occupied territory under siege to children.
They were everywhere: Movie theaters, restaurants, bookstores, hair salons Starbucks was basically a stroller parking lot.
Was it too much to hope for one small space to call her own?
His name was Roger Cobb.
It only took him another floor and a half to ask Miranda for her phone number.
The whole thing might have been very romantic if Simon hadn 't peed in his pants.
Before it goes any further, just make sure his parts are still under warranty.
Especially kids with bladder control issues.
- What is that, marriage by Mother Goose?
We want to meet Wesley of Wesley and Leslie.
And p.
s.
, does he work for Nestle?
As for me, rather than sort through the half-off bin I was dating someone brand-spanking new.
I met Vaughn Weisel at a P.E.N.
Luncheon a month ago.
It's amazing how much better looking fiction writers have become.
Still up for a movie?
- They want you to write something?
Don't be photographed in anything sleeveless.
No one who went sleeveless ever won a Pulitzer.
It's just a little tip from me to you.
Nice townhouse.
- I'm not dressed for family.
Can you just drop them through the mail slot?
All right.
Yeah, okay.
Thank you.
- Hi.
- No, I don't think so.
Carrie Bradshaw.
I love to hear that.
Aren't they clever?
Laundry.
- Icon?
- What's up?
Franny and Zooey?
We'll stay.
I mean, really, within the space of five minutes I had next week's column, an invitation to speak at an Ivy League university and access to the entire Zabar's fish counter.
Leave now? Was he nuts?
Miranda wondered how a vintage man might look on her modern couch.
While Miranda was dealing with queasiness Charlotte was handling depression which she felt could be solved with a homemade muffin.
The afternoon had been like six hours of foreplay.
Some men seduce with dim lights and soft music.
Vaughn seduced with chocolate chip cookies and relatives.
It was inevitable this would happen.
I just didn't know it would happen so quickly.
I'll get a tissue.
First time is always weird.
- We'd spent the day with his family.
Samantha was the General Patton of sex.
I like him.
But the thing I like best about him is his family.
I'm telling you, this family is like They got charisma.
Like Tom Cruise, they're the Tom Cruise of families.
- Kool-Aid?
In my mind, the complications of making a relationship work had just expanded exponentially.
When you date someone, how many people become emotionally involved? When you sleep with someone, are you screwing the family? While I was still on the fence about Vaughn I had no doubt about my feeling for his mother.
I was in love with her.
I can't get over it.
You've had five lives.
I can barely make one happen.
What? What do I do? I write this little column.
- Thanks a lot.
" - May I just say I like you very much.
- Nice to meet you.
Ditto.
That's our friend.
I believe you remember Samantha.
They're talking.
Talking and going to hear jazz.
One thing about families if no one's sorry to see you go, then you're probably not coming back.
The next morning, Charlotte was in for a rude awakening.
I didn't know your mom was nominated for an Oscar.
I just love that she still has so many ambitions for herself.
What was the documentary short about anyway?
Samantha was touched.
She realized this was Charlotte's way of saying "Thank you for fucking my brother.
Miranda decided she had ceded enough territory to the invading troops.
It's really great.
- What, turn the page?
Wait, stop.
Let's just take this nice and slow.
You tell me if you're feeling too excited and we'll take a little break.
Because I think we both really want this to work.
I love that you get so turned on by me and I am very turned on by you.
Maybe we've just been in too much of a rush.
- No, I don't want to forget it.
Come here.
- Let's talk about it.
I think we have to.
- I have no idea.
Jenna and I looked at each other like two foreigners without visas.
You know what, I think I'd better go.
I've got a deadline.
I'll go.
Thank you for lunch, for everything.
It really wasn't.
This has officially become too weird.
He won't even talk about it.
- No.
- I can't discuss this with you.
Then I saw that the person I really had to break up with wasn't Vaughn.
It was his mother.
I would still like us to be friends.
No, I mean that.
- I will.
Wallis was right.
The most important thing in life is your family.
There are days you love them, and others you don't.
But in the end, they're the people you always come home to.
Sometimes it's the family you're born into.
And sometimes it's the one you make for yourself.
My friend Charlotte was dating Dr. Bram Walker...
...a very hardworking orthopedic surgeon.
He was tired. This has nothing to do with you.
No, but I'm sure many of them wanted to.
You want some herb tea?
You are not bad in bed.
I've got Constant Comment and do you want some Tummy Tamer?
How can you say that?
Even if she was bad in bed, which she isn't, is it really that important?
Just for the record, in bed, you are....
How can you be so sure?
Last week, Samantha had dinner with a gay couple she'd known for years.
They're gay!
For a sex columnist, you have a limited view of sexuality.
Gay as pink suede.
Or in your case, twos or threes.
-Just if you're good or bad in bed.
That night I got to thinking about bed.
Are we secretly being graded every time we invite someone to join us in it?
A plus, B, D, incomplete.
Is making love really nothing more than a pop quiz?
If sex is a test, how do we know if we're passing or failing?
How do you know if you're good in bed?
Later that week, I was walking home thinking about my own sexual report card when....
What the hell--
I thought I was stung by a bee. Jesus!
I'm a smoker too, but watch where you throw those things?
No, it didn't leave a mark.
As the pain subsided, my mind was free to notice...
...how incredibly cute this guy was.
Carrie Bradshaw, burn victim.
You got a little comedy routine going there?
-Not funny yet.
But it might be after a cappuccino.
Three Marlboros and two Marlboro Lights later I had learned...
...Patrick was a composer, writing music for movies.
What type of movies do you compose for?
As long as you're challenged by what you do.
Dammit. Patrick Casey, whoever you are. I'm late. I have to go.
Thank you for the coffee. Maybe one day you'll give me scar tissue again.
-Thanks.
As I walked away, I started to think:
How many cute, smart, single smokers are there left in the world? Seven?
I decided to do something I almost never do...
...give a man my phone number.
This whole burn lawsuit I plan to initiate...
...it might get a little crazy, so here is my phone number.
You will need that for your attorney...
...or if you want to have coffee again sometime.
I left feeling great. It was such a cute approach. How could he not call?
How could he not call? It's been three days.
I don't wanna send him there, I like him.
I can't believe you spent this much on sheets.
The field of dreams.
The thing that gets me is, I'm not usually wrong about the phone number size-up.
I don't put it out there unless I'm pretty sure it's coming back.
He thinks I'm ugly.
-What's your point?
The next day I was in the Village looking for the perfect $7 dress...
...to go with my $300 shoes, when....
I had a choice. I could turn around and run away...
...or I could smile, be brave and walk on over.
Hi.
So what? Saturday's the day you stand on the street and smoke in the Village?
Hi, I'm Carrie.
-Right, sure.
Bye. I was on my way to Perry Street.
Bleecker, I meant Bleecker. Okay, bye. Goodbye to you, too.
-No, I'm embarrassed.
You're obviously in the middle of a thing with your lover...
...or whoever and I'm there....
I really wasn't getting the gay vibe from you.
It's just, he was so cute and....
-Right.
Okay, maybe you'll call me in a month.
God, no. I love alcoholics. Hell, I hope to be one someday.
-That was a joke.
But it might be after a cappuccino.
I can't think why not. You call me.
I accepted his kind invitation because when you think about it...
...aren’t we all in recovery from something?
Drinking? Drugging? Our last relationship?
On our first date, Patrick and I went for coffee.
I'm like that with Reese's Pieces. Reese's Pieces and shoes.
This is me. Thank you, Mr. Casey. I had a great time.
Then I gave him my very best lean-in-and-kiss-me-goodnight move.
Our next date, over dinner, he told me about working his 12 steps.
After dinner, I stood on my third step trying to work him.
Me.
I couldn't figure it out.
I knew he wanted me, because during my lean-in-and-kiss-me-goodnight move...
...I'd accidentally, on purpose felt his pop-up-and-say-hello.
What was going on?
By the third date, I wanted him even more than a fistful of Reese's Pieces.
Well then, goodnight.
That was that. I'd hit my humiliation limit.
Then I thought, how many cute, smart, sexy, single, smoking alcoholics...
...are there left in the world? Five?
Do you want to come up?
You! What about you! You are the best.
-I aim to please.
I'll have a Spanish omelet, hash browns, more coffee and orange juice.
Can I have some rice pudding for later? Thanks.
No, I'm starving. Patrick and I...All last night and I'm just....
Just don't drink any suspicious Kool-Aid or put on new Nikes.
Are you actually going to do this?
Christ, I'm in.
That night, while David and David got undressed...
...and waited for her in the bedroom.
Samantha began to wonder if maybe she was about to go too far.
Was she actually capable of being this sexually free?
Or was she getting in over her head?
She decided before there were any regrets, they should all talk about it a little more.
Samantha loved the Samantha mirrored through the eyes of the Davids.
Suddenly, Samantha wasn't feeling so good about herself in bed.
I gotta go or I'm going to be late for the tantric workshop thing.
We did it last night and all this morning.
That's when I realized it. Mr. Compulsive wasn’t in bed with me...
...he was in bed with a big bag of Chips Ahoy.
I think Patrick's addicted to me.
It's like he's replaced drinking with me.
He wants to have sex all the time. It's getting a little out of hand.
-They were gay.
An hour and a half later, crippled by our inability to look away from a car crash...
...we watched as the Dr. Shapiro illustrated tantric sex.
We're the embarrassing part?
And just like that, Miranda got hit by Old Faithful.
That night after we talked Miranda in from the ledge, I met Patrick for a movie.
There it was, the little phrase every girl is dying to hear...
...a week and a half into a relationship.
Thanks and that's so...
We have been going out for, like, a minute.
Mr. Casey, you do not love me...you love you, not drinking, with me.
I'm so flattered...but I think maybe we should slow down a little here.
It means that things are going very fast and....
You have all these new feelings because you're not drinking…
Maybe we should spend a little time apart. I'll call you tomorrow.
-Just a couple of nights.
I'm not breaking up with you. I'm just going inside.
Call me tomorrow. We'll do something next week, okay?
You should go to a meeting. And then go home, and call me tomorrow.
Goodnight. I'll see you next week. Go.
Get yourself some cookies.
Meanwhile, across town at Charlotte's....
Charlotte considered it the best 50 bucks she'd ever spent.
It cost Miranda a little more, but across town in her bed, things were good as well.
What are you doing?
Shit!
What are you doing? Don't take your clothes off.
My first impulse was to go down and rescue him...
...but as I learned on our second date, that would be codependent.
Still, I felt I had to do something.
Here, put this on, you'll get a cold.
Three weeks later, I got a letter from Patrick...
...saying he was back in the program and wanted to make amends.
I never saw him again but I always wondered two things:
Was he able to stay sober? Am I really that good in bed?
This is a story about a lovely couple, Rob and Elaine...
...who rented a house one especially hot and sticky summer in the Hamptons.
Elaine invited her best single friends, Cindy and Janet...
...while Rob invited his single friends, Ira and Matthew...
...to share the good times and exorbitant rent.
Until one day, this lovely couple had a terrible fight...
...when Elaine went for a run and twisted her ankle...
...and came back early to find Rob canoodling with Janet.
And Cindy got tired of Matthew's idiotic jokes and incessant market chatter.
Ira tried to be there for Elaine and confessed his true feelings for her...
...which she tried to laugh off as a joke.
By August, it got to the point where everything was so awkward...
...that nobody wanted to come back.
And that's when Janet called her friend Charlotte.
Because it's haunted with cheating boyfriends and sexual rejection.
-What if they meet someone?
-That’s because everyone's in the Hamptons.
Charlotte's sweet hopefulness touched something in all of us.
-Okay, I'm in.
Samantha always felt like she was in her 20s...
...until seeing an actual twenty-something brought her down to earth.
-Do you remember us in our 20s?
Have some compassion.
The only thing worse than being single in your 30s in this city is being single in your 20s.
The Hamptons Jitney is like the bus to summer camp...
...only instead of singing songs everyone ignores each other and talks on their cell.
I have.
Four bumper-to-bumper hours later, we arrived at our new digs.
It's not mildew, it's beachy.
Cynicism. Now there's one advantage we have over girls in their 20s.
Evidently, while we had taken the Midtown Tunnel...
...Charlotte had taken the time tunnel.
Here you go, ladies.
Sorry, it's been awhile since I pumped a keg.
That's good news for their backs.
I'm gonna go tell Charlotte we're leaving.
That’s another thing about twenty-something girls. They're very considerate.
You can always count on one of them to hold your hair when you vomit.
-Yeah?
Thank you.
-Great.
-Sure.
Well, mentor.
Of course. I'll be looking at a very busy summer.
No menial labor necessary. I'll just give you my phone number.
Thank you.
-Thank you.
The next day, Miranda woke up early to enjoy the cool morning breeze...
...and a much-needed moment of solitude.
That week, back in the city, I wondered what was the allure of the 20s?
On one hand, there's great skin tone, the thrill of fresh experience...
...and the sense of a consequence-free life full of seemingly endless possibilities.
While on the other, there are horrible apartments, sexually inexperienced men...
...and embarrassing errors in fashion judgment.
Should we fear these freshly minted, single women as a threat to our very survival...
...or pity them as clueless half-wits about to get their dreams dashed...
...and illusions shattered?
Twenty-something girls...friend or foe?
And that evening, in my first act as a mentor...
...I took my young acolyte to a book party.
Stop, I can feel my head swelling.
If it gets any bigger, I'll have to say goodbye to my hats.
As long as it doesn't deal with incest, Prozac, or partying, no.
-Saving what for marriage?
Are you seriously telling me that you've never had sex with a man?
Okay, what do you consider sex?
All right, I get it, no jobs of any kind.
You know what? I think I need to get a drink.
-Yeah.
A 25-year-old virgin was getting me a Cosmopolitan.
The generation gap had never seemed so wide.
-Have you actually read the book? -No, have you?
Know anything about the author?
His family has a history of diabetes and he has a steel splint in his left femur.
-Carrie Bradshaw.
My doctor won't even make house calls, let alone attend a book party.
Generally, it's just cheese and crackers. You never see an actual shrimp.
I'm actually going out to the Hamptons tomorrow.
All right, you know what? I'll be with my friends Saturday at Townline Beach.
A big yellow umbrella. You can come by and say hello if you like.
-Thank you.
Dr. Bradley Meego, this is Laurel.
Doctor, you are persistent.
All right. In case of emergency, only.
Drive safe.
That Saturday turned out to be hot and sunny.
While we sat under our umbrella...
...twenty-something girls sizzled on the sand like rotisserie chickens.
You could sit in a microwave and not burn.
And right then, my summer romance made his appearance, right on schedule.
This is Dr. Bradley Meego.
-Feel free to ignore her.
-I promise.
-Yeah.
He's cute. I'm just not really sure I'm interested.
A”good on paper guy” is a guy with great credentials...
...who you always end up leaving for some hot guy...
...who rides a motorcycle and doesn’t have a checking account.
You better put on some sunscreen, Georgette Hamilton.
I'd love to...I just can't abandon my friends.
I don't know.
Yes, you could definitely do that.
Romantic, polite, and his very own house south of the highway.
My good-on-paper guy was jumping right off the page.
Later that afternoon, we came back from the beach rested, rejuvenated...
...feeling almost 29 again.
Even Miranda was in good spirits.
She's here?
-Thanks.
Overnight, Samantha's ex-assistant, Nina Grabowski...
...had reinvented herself as Nina G.
While Samantha was getting fucked royally by her protege...
...mine was giving me the royal treatment.
-And what is it you like about my column?
-Does it hurt?
-To the drugstore.
Charlotte really is in her 20s. She's got crabs.
That night, I called Dr. Meego. I figured it was an emergency.
I have this thing about crabs.
I had them once in college and the experience scarred me for life.
I really I don’t think I can go back to that house until the mattresses are sanitized...
...and the sheets and towels are burned.
That’s all right. She can take care of herself.
Cheers.
I might have to, but only to sleep.
All righty. I promise, no funny stuff.
That night we slept together, but we didn't sleep together.
It was really nice.
I believe it was the first instance of a case of crabs moving a relationship forward.
Every year, one of the local Hamptons billionaires got down and dirty...
...and threw a big hoedown full of cowboys and caviar.
It was the event of the season.
We joined Samantha to lend our moral support.
Where are you going?
While Samantha set out to negotiate twenty-something detente...
...Charlotte prepared to launch a full-out war.
I began to realize, that the biggest threat twenty-something girls posed...
...was to themselves.
-That's great.
No. I'm gonna go find my date. But I'll see you later, okay?
Annoying, yes. Dangerous, no.
They were simply our youthful doppelgangers...
...who needed our compassion more than anything.
And then everything I so firmly believed was promptly blown to pieces.
Is it you?
What am I doing here? What are you doing here?
Really?
I'm sorry, I'm just a little stunned here. And confused.
Who is she?
You're in from Paris for the weekends?
You can't plan everything. Life can be pretty random.
I'm here on a date, too, somewhere. He's a doctor, Bradley Meego.
He's good on paper, probably like Natasha. Good-looking, sweet, blah-blah-blah.
How old is she, anyway?
Something like that.
I'll see you in the Hamptons or back in the city.
No, I just ran into Big. He's back from Paris.
He has a new girlfriend. She's 26.
And then I realized...
...twenty-something girls are just fabulous...
...until you see one with the man who broke your heart.
Life is all about making choices.
Some choices, like who you marry, are big...
...while others are even bigger.
What do you think?
The $5 ones that last three days, or the $10 ones that last five days?
-Three days.
Another choice is how to deal with an ex-boyfriend.
Some women handle it coolly, calmly, while others....
Honey, you gotta learn to form an opinion.
So what? If you don’t make it a couple, you withhold friendship as a punishment?
How can you imagine you guys, instead of the whole awful break-up scene...
...just like you say, ”hey, you, come here”...and chomp their head off.
It's just so childish. Not you, the whole situation.
I mean, we keep dresses we'll never wear again but we throw away our ex-boyfriends.
I'm not saying that I'm any better.
I haven't been able to be friends with Big, but....
If you loved someone and you break up...where does the love go?
No. That is a different love.
There is no way the love that I had with Big is same thing he has with Natasha.
About three weeks ago when I saw them at Cafe M.
He was holding her hand and smiling and...I finally got it.
They're happy, slash, we're over. It was okay.
-Complete bullshit.
Later that night, I got to thinking about the ex factor.
In mathematics, we learned that ”x” stands for the unknown.
“a” plus ”b” equals ”x.”
But what's really unknown is: what plus what equals friendship with an ex?
Is this an unsolvable equation?
Or is it possible to transform a once-passionate love...
...into something that fits nice and easily onto the friendship shelf?
I couldn’t help but wonder...can you be friends with an ex?
That Sunday afternoon, Miranda was sitting at home enjoying a biscotti and the paper when...
There it was...her ex's head.
As Miranda made plans to have dinner with her last love...
...Charlotte came face to face with the memory of her first...her horse, Taddy.
Charlotte's relationship with Taddy ended sadly...
...when he threw her during a teen equestrian competition...
...causing her to break her collarbone and lose the blue ribbon.
Her father promptly sold Taddy to another family and she hadn't been on a horse since.
Charlotte wondered if it was time to get back in the saddle again.
Meanwhile, across town...Samantha was about to see a stallion of her own.
It was later that week, when I spotted a Laura Ashley dress, circa 1988...
...still hanging in my closet...
...that I decided it was time to give my ex a friendly phone call.
I hadn't planned on the Idiot Stick Figure With No Soul answering.
Then, I remembered Big had caller ID.
Shit!
Hello yourself.
–No. Yes, but I didn't get to talk because...
...I accidentally hit the thing...so, you know, it hung up.
So, yes. And I...I heard Natasha, so, apologize to her. How is Natasha?
I'm A-OK.
Can't you let one go by? This is weird. The first call.
Maybe I'd...do better if I went with my little prepared speech.
I was wondering what you thought of...
...instead of pretending each other doesn't exist...
...we try to be friends or something?
-Want to have a lunch or something?
Thank you.
I have a 1:00 reservation. Bradshaw.
I used to make our lunch reservations in Big's name.
But today, I put it in mine, because that's what friends do.
Thank you.
-Let's eat.
And that's when I realized, Big was nervous.
It was odd. The new ”friend” part of me felt incredibly compassionate...
...while the old ”girlfriend” part of me felt incredibly smug.
-You okay?
You look good.
Iced tea.
-Cosmopolitan.
An hour later, I had solved the unsolvable friendship equation.
It seems the answer is this:
Cosmopolitans plus scotch equals friendship with an ex.
And what about your music?
If I had to listen to freaking Blood, Sweat & Tears one more time....
-10 minutes after we're awake?
Tell me about the girl.
-Friends talk about their relationships.
Go ahead, friend, tell me about the girl.
-Okay, enough! Don't tell me about the girl. No can do.
Maybe we should make a pact:
We don't talk about our relationships until they get really serious something.
I just got a splitting headache.
-Engaged?
How can you be engaged? You have a problem with commitment, remember?
In fact, you told me you never wanted to get married again, ever.
You just didn't want to marry me.
-Don't say her name! Don't you dare say her name to me!
You string me along for two years...
...then you marry some 25-year-old girl after only five months?
-Fine, that’s right. You didn't string me along.
You know what? I have to go. I have a headache.
-I'm fine.
Don't help me! Don't you help me!
What is it?
-You are the one end it like this. I was trying to be friendly.
This seems like a much better way to end things.
Go. Be engaged, get married to...Nijinsky or whatever her name is. Have a nice life.
Don't worry about me, I'm fine.
These steps are very dangerous.
The next day, I had promised to hold Charlotte's hand while she attempted to go riding.
It turned out, she needed to hold mine as well.
How are you doing?
Aside from the fact that my ex is engaged to a teenager...
...and I've got horseshit on my $300 goddamn shoes...I'm doing okay.
What the fuck is his problem?
You know what? I broke in Big. I did.
I broke him in and the Idiot Stick Figure With No Soul gets to ride him.
I know you are. Thanks.
Damn! You see, this is what happens.
You try to be friendly with an ex and you wind up knee-deep in shit! Perfect.
I'm here, it's all lovely. Go have fun.
As Charlotte placed her boot in the stirrup...
...all her bad memories of Taddy, broken bones and ribbons flooded over her.
-You just paid.
After a few ”get to know each other” phone calls...
...Samantha took up Mr. Cocky on his offer of a friendly drink.
Turns out, it was a very friendly drink.
Samantha suddenly understood what made Mr. Cocky so cocky.
Nothing is scarier than a really big one coming at you.
-Don't tell me you believe that.
You're going to try it again? Why?
-It's a penis, not Mount Everest.
You're unbelievable.
You broke up with James because he was too small, this guy is too big.
Who are you, Goldicocks?
That night, after a friendly dinner...
...Steve and Miranda began to explore their newfound friendship.
And in a bed across town....
After two yoga classes and a hit of the best Hawaiian gold she could find...
...Samantha was ready to take another run at Mount Everest.
And just like that, Samantha made her very first male friend.
The next day in Central Park, Charlotte was making a new friend as well.
She had decided she and Pal were moving too fast.
Before going any further, they needed to slow down and get to know each other better.
And with that gentle nudge from her new pal...
...all Charlotte's bad feelings about Taddy lifted...
...and she remembered just how much she had loved his cute white spots.
Hey, it's Carrie, I'm shoe shopping.
Christ. I feel like a real shit. I'm sorry.
I know you wouldn't.
-I'm here.
I'm sorry, too. I shouldn't have reacted like that. It was such a shock.
I guess it was a shock I needed to hear to move on.
I wish you all the best. I do. I hope you and Natasha will be very happy.
No. But I will.
Really. I hope...some day very soon...we can all meet for a drink and be great friends.
Like they do in the movies. Bye.
And I actually managed to hold onto those friendly feelings, until....
I can't believe my ex-boyfriend is 6 blocks away at the Plaza right now...
…having an engagement brunch.
It's my own fault. I had to make the big ”let's be friends” speech.
Who am I kidding? Big and I were never friends, we were something else.
Something that apparently did not end with an engagement party at the Plaza.
-What do you think?
I think I can actually feel them over there eating shrimp.
It's just…why her? I mean really...Why her?
Oh, my god. Hubbell. It is so Hubbell.
Hubbell! Robert ”Hubbell” Redford in The Way We Were.
I love, love, love, that movie.
-Katie. -K-k-k-katie.
Hello? C-c-c-curly.
Ladies, I am having an epiphany.
The world is made of two types of women:
The ”simple” girls and the ”Katie” girls.
I'm a ”Katie” girl and where are our drinks?
-The simple girl.
-And smoothes his hair away.
“Memories”
“Light the corners of my mind
“Could we?
Excuse me?
After I left my friends, I found myself pulled to the site of the Big engagement party.
I had no intention of going in, but it was on my way home.
I had a choice.
I could run or I could stand and ask him the question...
...that if I didn’t ask, would haunt me the rest of my life.
I'll say it is.
I was just on my way home and...I have a question for you.
Why wasn't it me?
-No, seriously. I really need to hear you say it. Come on, be a friend.
Yeah. “Your girl is lovely, Hubbell.”
And you never did.
Then I had a thought, maybe I didn't break Big.
Maybe the problem was he couldn't break me.
Maybe some women aren't meant to be tamed.
Maybe they need to run free until they find someone...just as wild to run with.
New York City.
Home to one million exciting, eligible, single men and four cold and slightly cranky single women.
Reminder, I am not going to Staten lsland to meet men.
I am going to judge them.
A perk of being a minor celebrity is that you get invited to major events.
Like NewYork fire department's annual calendar competition.
And they only put out top-notch fires.
He's a six.
His name was Bill Kelley.
He was a divorced politician, campaigning for New York City Comptroller.
And the token male judge.
- Watch the firemen.
After the contest, I began to realize that Staten lsland was like a quaint European country.
The American music was 20 years behind and you could smoke wherever you wanted.
Two songs later, it was time for this dancing queen to take a breather.
- Sure.
There you go.
- How's that working out for you?
I allow myself one a week.
- You live right on the edge, don't you??
- No, I got it.
Sure.
And by the way, you have the worst taste in men -ever.
You gave that guy from Midtown a 7.
- You got a point there.
What can I say? Sometimes a girl needs a half.
Whichever one is near Barneys.
Correct, Mr.
President.
- officially? It's 245 East 73rd street.
Fancy.
I thought all honest politicians lived in studios and ate beans out of a can.
I'm just here with my friends having a good time.
- I'm not into dating right now.
Actually, it was a silence and a half.
Time to go.
Politician's hitting on me.
- He's just way too "I'm the guy".
I don't want to have to tell you this.
I saw him give someone a thumbs up.
- Toot toot, beep beep.
- How many cocktails did she have?
And so, three girls headed home, taking only fond memories of Staten lsland and its infamous iced teas.
Honey, close up, it's cold.
- Are you gonna help?
- Yes, you're nice.
Yes, you're a catch.
I hate you.
Yes, you're getting married.
I Wasn't quite sure if it Was the iced teas or the Staten lsland dating pool that broke the camel's back.
But something set Charlotte on fire.
And uptown on dry land, Samantha and Mr.
July had their own fire going.
I believe the official fire department count is "a four alarmer".
The next morning at breakfast, Miranda and I wanted poached eggs, Samantha wanted to give us the details and Charlotte wanted to keep her head from exploding over her raincoat.
- Pass the salt.
- Miss Hangover's right.
Can we spare the cock talk till cocktail time?
- That's cops.
or nightmare.
First, there's a weight limit.
Second, it's the hero thing.
- You see him on that truck
hurrying to save someone trapped.
The sentence independent single women in their thirties are never supposed to think, let alone say out loud.
Did you ever think that maybe we're the white knights and we're the ones that have to save ourselves? -
- Is it? Later that day I got to thinking about fairytales.
What if Prince Charming had never showed up? Would SnowWhite have slept in that glass coffin forever? or would she have eventually woken up, spit out the apple, gotten a job, a healthcare package and a baby from her local sperm bank? I couldn't help but wonder.
While for some women the idea of rescue was a life raft, for Miranda it was an insult.
And over on the East Side at a more Charlotte-friendly bar, the ice tea princess began her quest for a white knight.
Very cute.
And I'm a professional.
We got here ten minutes ago.
Pace yourself.
Charlotte was a firm believer in the laws of dating feng shui.
Change location, change luck.
No, it's not you.
Into every life a little J.
J.
must fall.
He was a nice, sweet, handsome, great investment banker who lived between Madison and Fifth.
So, maybe there really were white knights.
The day after Charlotte met her knight, I met my credit card limit.
With no man in sight, I decided to rescue my ankles from a life of boredom by purchasing too many pairs of Jimmy Choo shoes.
- You're not seriously here.
You're like a Jehovah's Witness with a good suit.
- How long have you been here?
- Shoes.
- God, you are
I'm not showing you a shoe.
- You do?
- You want one?
- And why is that?
- No.
That Saturday, when I was unable to take Miranda to her laser surgery due to a looming column deadline, she didn't call Steve.
She decided to take things into her own hands.
Who needs a man to hold your hand, when you have cab fare and a black marker to write down emergency numbers? And while Miranda was under the knife, Charlotte was having her first glass of white wine with her white knight.
Charlotte nodded, thinking what a nice, sweet, handsome, funny, great couple they made.
Charlotte realized that her date wasn't a man who came to women's rescue, he was a man who liked to start fights.
And just like that, Charlotte's white knight changed into a white nightmare
one cab ride and two sleeping pills later, Steve put Miranda to bed.
The next morning, after what felt like a hundred years, Miranda awoke.
And for the first time in her life, she sawthings clearly.
That night, Mr.
July invited Samantha to come down and hang with him while he worked the Sunday shift.
This was not the firehouse fantasy Samantha had in mind.
- It's me, leave a message.
- I don't knowwhat I'm doing.
I'm standing here, fully dressed, watching that politician guy drive off to Staten lsland without me.
Why? -
- Don't think so.
Any other ideas? Just say it.
There it Was.
The phrase single, independent women in their thirties are never supposed to think.
Let alone say out loud.
oK, gotta go.
Miranda was right.
I was like a woman frozen on the ledge of a building on fire.
I'd been so burned in my last relationship, I Was afraid to leap off into the next one.
- Ferry.
- I'm very independent.
- And this isn't a date.
I'm a concerned citizen.
A woman on my block won't pick up after her poodle.
And, Mr. President, it was a bad break-up.
So I need to take this slow.
Somewhere between the chilli and half-time, Samantha decided if she wanted her firehouse fantasy to happen, she'd have to make it happen.
Samantha rode the pole a couple of times that night.
Samantha learned there's quite a difference between a rescue fantasy and a rescue reality.
No, I'm good.
You go You go and do your thing.
Kissing is enough.
It's enough for tonight, really.
oh, shit.
It's almost 12:00, I'm gonna miss the last ferry.
Wait! Wait! I lost my Choo.
He didn't have a white horse, but he did have a BMW with a working heater.
So I guess, sometimes a woman absolutely has to be rescued.
- You're taking me home and that's it.
oK, make a right.
And sometimes, a woman absolutely has to rescue a man.
At least, that's how it ends in this Staten lsland fairytale.
I had been dating politician Bill Kelley for three weeks.
Since most of our time was spent campaigning, I dressed the part.
I found some vintage Halston and did a spin on Jackie Kennedy.
The early years.
We made a good match.
I was adept at fashion, he at politics.
Really, they're both about recycling ideas and making them seem fresh and inspiring.
Yes, he is.
- What is that?.
- Is that on the ballot?
Put me down.
That was the night I had my political consciousness raised.
The truth was, there were no other candidates in sight.
But Miranda wasn't ready to let Steve win by default.
- It's the undecideds they're after.
Yeah, I'm dating a potential comptroller.
It's hot.
- Guys, he's not running for president.
I base my decision on the swimsuit competition.
- We need a president in a hat.
FDR, good president, wore a hat.
- We tried to ignore that the first time.
- or quicker to jump in the sack.
There we were.
Just four girls talking politics.
Meanwhile, Miranda was facing a day at the polls earlier than she expected.
How sweet.
They still call it that?
How many other guys are you dating?
You did let him back in your life.
There must be something there.
You gotta put a better spin on it than that.
It's time for the list.
Things you like about him.
Things you don't like.
- See which is longer.
You are judgmental.
Put it to good use.
Politics were always as relevant to me as a new Erica Jong novel.
But I did find it interesting that a discussion about politics ultimately became a discussion about sex.
And a discussion about sex became a question of politics.
Which led me to wonder, if the two were inextricably linked, and if so can there be sex without politics? That night, Samantha discovered her own hot, new candidate.
Samantha never felt better.
Just as her self-esteem was soaring right off the charts
Later that week, I brought "the single ladies coalition to elect Bill Kelley" to a fundraiser.
- A little person?
- What's the difference? Little person is the proper way to refer to an adult under 5 feet.
That may be the perfect height.
This is a politically incorrect conversation for a political fundraiser.
Charlotte was running her own campaign.
She wanted to be elected wife before the year was out.
- There's Miranda.
Hey, you made it.
He wants an investigation into the Board of Education for waste, and he's against large corporations wasting your tax dollars
- I'm sleeping with him.
come on, I'll introduce you.
This is the lovely Miranda Hobbes.
And her friend Steve Brady.
Charlotte was stumping for her cause, and making newfriends.
- Stanford! - Hi.
Why?
- This is my friend, Stanford Blatch.
- That's his campaign manager.
- How do you even know he's gay?
Great, now I'm a first lady and a pimp
Hey, excuse me.
This is awkward, so feel free to stop me at any time, but there's a person here who would like to meet you.
- A guy.
It's the guy right over there.
Actually, no.
It's the bald guy, with the great sense of humor.
- No.
- oK.
Well Go Kelley.
I wondered howto handle this political hot potato.
- He's not gay.
I realized I was getting good at politics.
Bill raised $6,000 that night.
It really got him in the mood.
Thank you.
The feeling is mutual.
- No, it's great.
- I am happy.
What about you? Is there anything you want or need that I'm not doing?
- What?
That sounds nice.
- My God! -
I told him I'd just gone, maybe another time.
I can't keep saying that forever.
So this is what it's come down to ready, set, pee?
- Are you advocating that I do this?
Sure, it's practically a fairytale.
"The Princess And The Pee".
You're dating a munchkin and I'm following the yellow brick road.
A couple of nights later, and no closer to a solution, I had a date with Bill.
We went to his favorite lndian restaurant, that boasted the hottest curry in the city.
No, I'm fine.
- You did?
He's just some other fellow I'm seeing in washington
- You don't mind, do you?
Me too.
That Friday night, Charlotte threw her "used date party".
can I get you something to drink? Yes, immediately, if not sooner.
You said to bring a man you're not interested in.
- How do you do?
- Hey, what are you doing here?
- How's that list going?
She felt so politically incorrect about dumping a man for his height.
She felt she had to sleep with him.
oK, I'm ready to go.
There's nobody here for us.
Talk to you tomorrow.
Talking to Greg, Charlotte felt like she had unearthed a rare coin that some other woman had discarded.
once Melinda saw Greg talking to another woman, he suddenly looked all shiny and new again.
That night, Jeff proved to Samantha that he more than made up for his shortcomings.
Samantha told us later it was like having sex with a horny smurf.
Meanwhile, across town, Steve was busy stuffing Miranda's ballot box.
Steve had just said the one big pro that outweighed all the cons.
Later that week, Samantha put her heels away and gave Jeff a chance.
Samantha was stunned.
It was one thing to date a man who went to the little boy's room.
Another to date one who still shopped at the little boy's department.
Surprisingly, Samantha had found what she was really looking for.
And it had nothing to do with size.
She'd found a man who made her laugh.
They dated for two weeks.
Though he was short, it was a long relationship for Samantha.
That night, parched and nervous, I spent another night with Bill.
- Yes, it was.
- can I talk to you about something?
I've been giving this peeing thing a lot of thought, and while I think it's totally fine that that's what you're into, I just It's just never really been my thing.
Yeah, so I thought instead, maybe you could close your eyes and I could dribble warm tea on you.
That might feel good.
ormaybe you might think it's fun to hear the sound of running water when we have sex.
And, if things got really serious between us, I could maybe, even, leave the bathroom door open sometime.
Although, I'm really not sure how comfortable I'd be with that either.
Some people connected with the campaign read your column and they had a different take on it.
Wait a second, I may write about sex, but you like people to pee on you.
I realized that politics had entered my bedroom as well as my bathroom.
I decided that my bravest political act would be to tell the truth.
I didn't use his real name.
It was much more political not to
There are fewthings I love as much as Sunday brunch.
You can sleep till noon and still get eggs anywhere in the city.
Alcohol is often included.
And it's the one day you get the single woman's sports' pages - "The New York Times" wedding section.
On a regular basis.
No more reading aloud.
Meaning she quit her job once she found her soul mate /investment banker.
You know who they marry? The roman numeral guys.
- Ding, ding, ding.
You give him head, he cuts yours off!
It's amazing how upset women get over the marital status of strangers.
- Let me see.
Then there's the occasional familiar face.
Well, it's official.
He's married.
Where are my fries? It's fine, all right? I was prepared for this.
They had an engagement party at the Plaza.
Why is their wedding like a short story? What's next, a movie?
- It's OK.
I'm not gonna slit my wrists.
You know what? I think I want to be alone.
- Would you stop?
How original, they fell in love in Paris.
" - And "The New York Times".
I don't hear Big anywhere in this article.
She's calling the shots and he's just along for the ride.
That's nice.
No, that's Big.
What I wouldn't give for a working fireplace.
- I know that.
I know, it's not him.
It's the whole wedding.
And it's herher! You know, she's just you know, shiny hair, style section Vera Wang.
And I'm the sex column they run next to ads for penile implants.
Big wasn't the only one taking the plunge.
After more than a decade of domestic independence, Miranda had opened up to a relationship Good morning.
with a cleaning lady.
Good morning, Magda.
- On me?
- I use my oven for storage.
I can't believe you have a cleaning lady.
Where did you find her, in a time capsule?
I think I need this in a smaller size.
And there she was, Mrs.
Big, all five foot ten of her.
Hey Hi, Natasha.
I heardI read Congratulations on the thing, on the wedding.
This is Miranda, we're shopping.
That looks nice, what you have on there.
- Really? I'm a member.
You know, I write, so I am a woman in the arts.
I go to that lunch every year in clothes.
- Yeah, I'm going.
- All right.
Oh, my God.
- Now, I can't find the invitation.
I've talked to her twice, once in a cowboy hat, and once in my bra.
Like freakin' Annie-get-your-clothes-on.
I would just like her to see me looking normal.
- I would prefer to look amazing.
Not like I'm trying, just effortlessly striking.
It's not about Big, it's about Natasha.
Can you help me find out when and where it is?.
So, you support women in the arts?
That night I modeled my wardrobe in my head and vetoed everything.
Why did I care so much? What was it about Natasha that made me feel like the charity case? Was it just that she had Big, or was this bigger than Big? I started to wonder.
Are there women in New York just there to make us feel bad about ourselves? For Miranda, that woman was a certain Ukrainian housekeeper.
Magda had discovered Miranda's "goodie-drawer".
Manhattan has spas, where a woman can pay to feel good about herself.
I can't believe she opened your goodie-drawer.
Everybody knows the night-stand is private.
- What do you have in there? -
Massage oil, cigarettes.
- Everybody has one.
- I don't need to know what's in it.
Charlotte? - What's wrong?
OK, and
This isn't really public, it's a ladies' locker-room.
- I didn't either.
She might still live in a naked house.
Sweetie, who cares how you look to other women.
You're deluded.
Charlotte, you have a beautiful figure.
Yes!
Samantha always felt good about herself.
But after her 80-minute massage, she felt even better.
Samantha's was good, but not that good.
Samantha smiled, but a woman with a goodie-closet doesn't need to pay for head.
Then again, you can never have too many massages.
Samantha immediately got on the wait list for Kevin's next available appointment.
That night, Steve wasn't available.
Miranda chose the next best thing.
Magda was not only cleaning, she was performing an exorcism.
Later that week, I had a religious experience at Manolo Blahnik.
I need your opinion.
I'll have that incredibly rich-looking, flourless chocolate thing
- And a cafe au lait.
- Now you're making me feel bad.
This place has the best desserts.
The point of coming is to splurge.
Is there a new "Zone" book out?
The problem is not your thighs.
The problem is your head.
Now About the shoes.
Hold on I need these for the WlTA luncheon.
The heels are almost high enough to put me face to face with Natasha, if Natasha wears flats.
But why would she wear flats? Do they make the right statement?
I am beautiful, powerful and don't care you're only 25, and married my ex.
It's not a complex.
It's a Natasha specific obsession, which will be over when she sees me, at the benefit, looking fabulous, in these shoes and a dress from Bergdorf's that'll cost a month's rent.
Wow! Why can't you do that for yourself? That afternoon, Charlotte faced her fear.
Meanwhile, Samantha had spent the last half hour face-down, picturing Kevin's face down on her.
Since they were running out of time, she took the matter in her own hands.
Apparently, it wasn't.
Clearly, she meant Kevin's staff.
The following Monday, Samantha and I were the definition of civilized.
We officially became ladies who luncheon.
This is not the conversation I wish to have as my most amazing self.
- No But I do see Wendy Wasserstein and Gloria Steinem.
- You know what? I believe you.
Hello Mimi, Ms Carrie Bradshaw, and Ms Samantha Jones.
I'm a member, I just haven't been to an event, ever.
It's Bradshaw.
I'm not sure the "Hello, my name is" goes with the ensemble.
Oh, Natasha's not here yet.
I'm the one who's sick.
Charged another outfit I can't afford.
Maybe bounced a cheque to charity, just to prove I'm amazing.
I've never felt less so.
Let's just go.
- Loser on the rocks?
I write about sex.
Is that something they'd like to learn? Writing about blow jobs?
- Hi, Jenna.
Wow.
That's supposed to make me feel better? Six years ago she had a weight problem?
You had to love her for trying.
Samantha tried to make me feel good by making Natasha sound bad, but it only made me feel worse.
- Another one and I'll lose my lunch.
Ten pounds does not a porker make.
Turns out I wasn't the kind of member those women in the arts needed.
That night, in her spotless apartment, Miranda knew she'd been right to take a stand because of her night-stand.
Magda realized that single women in New York never make pies, but they sometimes make guys.
A few weeks later, I got something in the mail from Women In The Arts.
It was a "Thank you for attending", signed by Natasha.
Game over.
I had to accept that in life, some women are simply better.
No amount of shoes, or lack of pastry or making of pies will change that.
I will never be the woman with the perfect hair, who can wear white and not spill on it.
And chair committees, and write thank you notes.
And I can't feel bad about that.
"Sorry I couldn't be their.
" T-H-E-l-R.
But I could feel good about this.
Miranda, it's good she got married.
The woman's an idiot.
It's been said that New Yorkers are the most jaded people in the world.
The fact is we've done and seen it all.
So when Charlotte said that her new show at the gallery would blow us away, we took it with the proverbial grain of salt.
It was the latest installation from photographer Baird Johnson, entitled "Drag Kings - "The collision of illusion and reality".
Yep, that's a woman.
Hurry up and look before Giuliani shuts it down.
- It's amazing.
Congratulations.
I thought it was "Pokemon".
Reminder, John Wayne is a Jane.
You wouldn't have to wax.
If you change your mind, you've got cop written all over you.
Excuse us.
What was that about? Nobody loves canapes that much.
Sounds like someone needs a sock in the pants.
No, I'm meeting Sean.
- He's not that young.
Who cares? Age is an illusion.
Later, Miranda found her apartment had undergone its own gender transformation.
Miranda loved the man inside of her.
She just didn't love him inside her apartment all the time.
I'm practicing my triple salchow in my head.
I was dragged around by Sean, my "generation-something-else" date.
We met at a party, celebrating a new lnternet magazine Sean was running that I still couldn't find on my computer.
Seriously, stop!
Smoking is the only thing that keeps me balanced.
It's not officially a date without cocktails.
My coach is gonna kill me.
Half a flask later, Sean and I had broken the iceat least my ass had.
- You and the Russian judgetough.
There was something about him.
He was sexy, charmingcoordinated.
Nothing about him or our third date felt typical.
Until thenthere it was.
The inevitable third-date question.
No, it's fine.
It's fine.
I ended something a while ago.
Two years of a lot of back and forths.
We weren't Y2K compatible.
What about you?
He's a bisexual.
The weird thing is he was so open.
"Hi.
I'm a bisexual.
" Like, "Hi, I'm from Colorado".
"ls that a problem?" What kind of question is that?
That it wasn't a problem.
He's such a good kisser.
If they all jump off a bridge, you will too?
When did this happen? When did the sexes get all confused?
I did the "date the bisexual guy" thing in college.
- They all ended up with men.
Maybe I do have a problem with this.
I'm an old fart.
I'm not even sure bisexuality exists.
It's just a layover on the way to Gaytown.
You're right.
- What about my problem?
Easy for her to say.
That night, I couldn't get Samantha's words out of my head.
Was Sean's generation on to something? Was sexual flipping the wave of the future? If it was, could I play that game or was I over the hill? If women can transform into men, and men into women and we can sleep with everyone, then maybe gender doesn't exist anymore.
If we can take the best of the other sex and make it our own, has the opposite sex become obsolete? Don't bust my balls.
Samantha hired Matt five minutes later.
She was the man of the office, but she could fit one more.
Meanwhile downtown, Charlotte could have used some help herself.
The next night, Sean and I went to a club so new, even I hadn't heard of it.
- What's the name of this place?
- Like the musical.
- You're too cool for me.
Ten seconds of kissing and I almost forgot his lack of sexual orientation.
Until we stopped kissing.
Who are you checking out, the guy or the girl?
Oh.
Sorry.
I'm sorry.
Sorry, this whole bisexual thing is throwing me for a loop.
You've been with men and women ?
Were you just looking at that guy
- "Dig" is in again?
So, you're not gay?
An hour later, Sean was in my bed.
That's just me.
- Thanks.
It's a rental.
- Nothing.
- Do I kiss better than a guy?
- Top two per cent.
If there was this good-looking guy walking towards you and across the street was a beautiful girl, which one .
It may not have been all about sex, but it was for the next two hours.
I wasn't the only one with younger men on the brain.
Samantha found Matt's boyish arrogance annoying, unprofessionaland incredibly hot.
Miranda was having a problem sharing a space with the other sex.
Most single women dream of this moment.
Most single women but Miranda.
Faced with relationship problems, some women turn to fried food.
Miranda turned to the latest fitness craze - "The Goddess Workout".
- This helps you to be a woman?
- You're insane.
We're out of here.
- Thank God.
She also wears make-up to the gym.
- I know.
In any relationship one person is the alpha dog.
The one in chargethat's you.
You don't like sharing your water dish.
- That you are.
Miranda arrived home later to an empty apartment.
And for the first time, she really didn't like it.
While Miranda and I worked out our inner goddesses, Baird was working the male out of Charlotte.
Who knows whether it was the sock or the suit or Baird.
Charlotte wasn't just a chick with a dick, she was a chick with balls.
The two alpha dogs at Samantha's were not getting along as well.
The only place Samantha and Matt worked well together was in bed.
With Sam on top, naturally.
That night, Miranda invited Steve for pasta.
A week later, Miranda's man moved into her place.
The same day that Charlotte moved her man into her place.
She never saw Baird again.
She was too embarrassed at how forward she'd been.
She might have been that type of guy but never that type of woman.
Sean and I were almost at the party.
If there's no vodka, it's your head.
OK, dude.
- Who's party is this?
Mark, ex-boyfriend Mark?
It was definitely a first.
I was attending a party of my boyfriend's ex-boyfriend.
And his boyfriend.
OK.
Happy birthday.
Congratulations.
- You two were
- Thank you for noticing.
An hour later, I had almost got it straight.
Grace once dated Brett.
- And Brett used to live with Joel?
- You slept with Dawn.
Naturally.
Gay, bi, straight.
This party was a platter of sexual orientation.
- Play what?
Seventh grade spin the bottle?
- It's a girl.
Try again.
Of course it was.
I was in Alice-ln-Confused-Sexuality Land.
I had a choice.
I could stand up, walk out and prove I was an old fart.
Or I could fall down the rabbit hole.
So I fell.
It wasn't bad.
Kind of like chicken.
- Just more cigarettes.
That was the last night I saw Sean.
They could do what they wanted, but I was too old to play this game.
So I took my hot, old fart-ass home
One reason why people still risk the possible horror of a first date, is the possible magic of the good-night kiss at the front door.
The world slows down for a second as some people take that hopeful lean into a possible future together.
The worst.
The top of the worst.
You can never tell.
They look normal.
Pointy tongue, the worst of the worst.
Clam-mouth.
That's the worst.
Point taken.
Adeena Williams was my newspaper's former food editor.
And the chef and owner of Fusion, whose specialty was a mingling of trendy food with soul food.
Martha Stewart meets Puff Daddy on a plate.
- No.
Yes!
Gotta love a fella who loves jewellery.
Samantha is rude and politically incorrect.
Talk about affirmative action.
The next day I had just settled down with a cup of fresh coffee and a coffee table full of fashion magazines, when - Who is it?
I can't handle hard news before noon.
I got a whole afternoon planned with Australian "Vogue".
I'm not gonna drop everything to go to see some cute guy.
- I'll get my purse.
People with nothing better to do than ogle some craftsman.
Pathetic.
- You're a classy guy.
His name was Aidan.
He was warm, masculine and classic American.
Like his furniture.
The dog is overkill.
- Excuse me?
We're staring.
Look away.
His name was Marty Mendleson.
He was warm, stylish and classic gay.
Like his outfit.
Hey, doggie.
Hi.
Bad doggie.
Down.
You should get him a chewtoy.
You can't imagine howflattered I am.
- I'm humiliated.
This is your store? I had no idea.
When I heard the lie come out of my mouth, I knew I was interested.
- This is a beautiful chair.
You say that about every piece, right?
- I'll take it.
I wasn't really in the market for a leather chair.
But I had to have whatever it was I just felt.
I'm a designer.
Carrie Bradshaw.
Carrie Bradshaw Designs.
- How soon can it be delivered?
In New York City retail lingo, that meant "l like you too".
Will you knock another $10 off? The dog humping aside, it was one of those perfect New York Saturdays.
At Miranda's, Steve was having an even better Saturday.
I have a crush.
- Yeah.
Big wasn't a crush, he was a crash.
His name is Aidan.
And I believe him to be very cute.
So cute, I bought a chair I couldn't afford just because he made it.
No way.
What about Steve?
You're asking me?
- You told me.
Isn't that what you couples do, support each other's silly dreams?
That week, Chivon invited Samantha to go uptown and hear an artist he was thinking of signing.
Although Samantha had been in the club scene for years, she'd never been asked to spread without being offered a cocktail.
In a matter of minutes, Samantha felt at home in Chivon's world.
In a matter of hours, Chivon was at home in Samantha's home.
Samantha rarely asked a man to stay over, but she couldn't resist having breakfast with his Tiffanies
One reason some people still risk the possible horror of a first date, is the possible magic of the good-night kiss at the front door.
" I have a confession to make I'm not a designer.
I'm a writer.
I wanted the discount.
It's shameful, but true.
But don't worry, I only lie about furniture, nothing else.
Are you upset?
Just a little.
When the lie came out of my mouth, I realised how much I liked him.
If it bothers you, I'll just
I had a great time.
- I'm sorry, I have an Altoid.
I totally get it.
I have a mint here.
They are curiously strong.
- Can you just hold that?
So Really?
I couldn't believe what my crush was saying.
I was crushed.
Later that night, I wondered When did dating become so dump-friendly? What happened to the time when a bad kiss or a cigarette or a ridiculous dream was part of a person's portfolio? In today's dating market, is it wise to liquidate certain stocks, the first sign they might not perform as well as expected? Or are there things one should try and negotiate? In relationships, what are the "deal breakers"?
Never one to trade a stock before it had matured, a determined and patient Charlotte tried to teach Bad how to kiss good.
With just a little negotiating, Brad's stock suddenly began to rise.
Downtown at Marty Mendleson's, others were experiencing a much more successful first kiss.
Was Stanford enough of a queen to sleep with one who collected queens? Uptown at Fusion, Samantha felt a bit like a queen herself.
To Adeena, Samantha's skin was a non-negotiable.
The only place Adeena was interested in fusion was on a plate.
- Please tell me you didn't say dis.
- What happened?
To Charlotte, a black and blue chin was a deal breaker.
She shouldn't sacrifice who she is because somebody has a problem.
Like me and smoking.
Too bad Aidan had a problem with it.
But you have to accept people for who they are.
- He's not that cute.
For him to dump me over a little thing like smoking.
- I don't like being ganged up on.
Smoking is a part of who I am.
I'll quit when I want to, not cos a cute guy told me to.
- Right, Samantha?
It's all total bullshit.
What is wrong with cigarettes?
You think that's an overreaction to a repressed childhood?
So, it's "Goodbye, Dolly"?
Well, Stannie, if I may call you that.
Maybe you should reconsider? When was the last time someone you had a crush on asked you out? You're no one to talk, Miss Marlboro Lights.
You're right.
I am no one to talk.
Maybe I could quit, just a little.
Till I see what's up.
- Ettu?
Steve never did win the big money at Madison Square Garden.
But having Miranda show up, made him feel like a million bucks.
- Don't get any ideas.
Since you negotiated such a good price for me on the chair, maybe I can negotiate a little deal for you on the smoking.
I've been thinking about quitting anyway.
Why not now? No cigarettes.
Maybe you think I'm more of a smoker than I am.
I only have like a cigarette with cocktails.
The second he said coffee, I knew I wanted a cigarette.
I'd love it.
It was one of those dates when you have so much to say that coffee turns into a movie, a movie into a long walk and a long walk turns into the beginning of cold turkey rehab.
I was completely ready to trade in my crush
when it dawned on me how much I was willing to give up for a cigarette.
Maybe a quick bite.
Meanwhile, back in the "Valley of the Dolls", Stanford thought there was something more rare than a porcelain face his passion.
To Marty Mendleson, a broken face was a deal breaker.
Samantha was about to come face to face with her deal breaker.
As Samantha turned to leave, she realised this wasn't a black thing.
It was a Samantha thing.
She'd never backed down to a bitch and she wasn't about to start.
Seven hours into the world's longest date, all I could think was, "Five more minutes and I can smoke the cigarette hidden in my purse.
I forgot, I have a deadline.
I have to go.
- No! Stay and enjoy your dessert.
I'm fine.
Samantha knewthe real problem wasn't her white pussy.
It was that Chivon was a black pussy who wouldn't stand up to his sister.
And for Samantha Jones, that was the deal breaker.
It was too bad we had to end.
But that's the way it goes, I guess.
We had some good times together and I'm sure we could have had more.
But, it's over.
In the end, I really did it for me.
I just hope he's worth it
You can count on one hand the things a New Yorker will wait for.
My list includes: the perfect apartment, the chocolate souffle at Le Bernardin, and the annual Manolo Blahnik sale.
After four dates with the furniture designer, whose kiss made my knees weak, this New Yorker had waited long enough.
So, do you wanna sleep over?
Apparently, that New Yorker had not.
When one door closes, another one opens.
At 2:00am, the door that opened was Samantha's.
The guy came in behind the guy who came in Samantha.
- Nothing.
- The sex was bad?
What happened?
He didn't say it at the drycleaners, but when he was in you.
Even Charlotte is having more sex than me.
I don't knowwhat's going on.
We're spending a lot of time together.
He keeps asking me out.
But he doesn't wanna sleep with me.
- He's not gay.
- I don't think so.
- We'll work it out.
I'll go left.
I may never know.
If Samantha was right, I had little time left before the relationship-window closed.
So I wore my little dress that left little to the imagination.
Do you want to take this inside?
You gotta get up early.
Whatever.
- Do you just wanna be friends?
Why don't you wanna sleep with me? Whatever it is I'd rather know sooner than later.
Why did I expect to sleep with him after only a week and a half? Had I become so jaded that I didn't recognize romance when it kissed me on the lips? Modern women need a cheat-sheet to remind us romance isn't dead.
Romance.
I tell you, it didn't even occur to me, which is so depressing.
Is that what 13 years of dating in Manhattan does to a woman?
Excuse me?
- You got it from Steve?.
I knew what was bothering her.
The same thought had bothered me since the guy I'd been seeing for 10 days asked me to slow down.
If you're a 30 something woman in Manhattan and you're sexually active, it's inevitable that you'll rack up a certain number of partners.
But how many is too many men? Are we simply romantically challenged or are we sluts? It was the question on Charlotte's mind.
By dessert, Charlotte had decided to forget it and call it a do-over.
As Charlotte started to feel better, Miranda started to feel worse.
Steve's trip to the doctor didn't cure his fear of doctors.
As Steve faced something every man dreads, Miranda faced something every woman dreads.
She was making a list of all the men she'd slept with.
At least all the ones she could remember.
She wondered how she did all these men and did her law degree and became a successful lawyer.
Samantha knew her number was up there.
But she didn't know everybody else knew.
The next day, Miranda's sex life was flashing before her as well.
Meanwhile, I was still waiting for the diagnosis on my relationship.
Would Aidan become friend or boyfriend?
It's about time.
I ordered this years ago.
He certainly kissed like a boyfriend.
No.
But he teased me like a friend.
Boyfriend.
Friend.
Boyfriend.
And liar.
- I think Samantha was right.
Me and Aidan.
I think we're just friends who kiss occasionally.
Cos he's still here.
He's been in the bathroom for half an hour.
All we did was eat Chinese and watch "Zorro".
Now I'm working and he's reading the paper on the john.
This isn't romance, this is bullshit.
- Yeah?
I have to go, my friend wants to see me in the bathroom.
What did you want, because Wow.
It's like a Danielle Steele novel in here.
No, this is Wow.
Are you sure this isn't just a cheap ploy to see me naked?
That's the thing about baths.
Big tub, little person.
So nowwhat?
Fuck it, let's just do it.
This isn't how it should happen.
You said this was just a bath.
- You do.
And I do too now.
OK.
Out of the tub.
The next night, Samantha was feeling exposed.
They can't evict you for having sex.
You can't.
You have a rent-controlled apartment on the Upper East Side.
I have to go, I have a date with Aidan.
- We're not having sex yet.
Tonight, we're going to a blues club.
- We'll have sex eventually.
By the way, I got a little preview.
I assure you, there is no curving in any direction.
It is straight.
Very straight.
That night, Charlotte had a date as well.
And he was doing his best to be the strong, silent type.
That night, Alexander decided to stop seeing Charlotte and start seeing a therapist.
And Steve got his test back.
It was negative, like the rest of the experience.
Note, men who have had a lot of sexual partners are not called sluts.
They are called very good kissers.
A few are even called romantics.
- I've never done a lot of things.
- That I've done.
I don't know.
What about Pete?
And you knewthis all night? And then something weird happened.
For the first time in a long time, I was nervous.
We were going to sleep together and it was going to mean something.
I was no virgin, but this was definitely virgin territory.
Good morning.
The nice thing about a new relationship, it's a clean slate.
And speaking of clean slates, Samantha moved to the trendy Meatpacking District.
Whores were whores, men were women and rents higher.
It happened two days ago.
Aidan and I had been seeing each other for three weeks when
- I'm not sure.
- I don't know.
The truth was I really didn't.
The next day I searched for unpaid bills, unanswered calls, unmet deadlines.
But I hadn't so much as missed a teeth cleaning.
My life appeared to be in order.
But the next night, like clockwork I realized I was in an existential crisis.
One that not even the sight of this season's Dolce & Gabbana sandals could lift me out of.
Do you wanna spend the night?
- I'm gonna get some water.
Then I realized it.
What was wrong was, for the first time in my life, I was in a relationship where absolutely nothing was wrong.
It's smooth sailing.
Nothing but calm seas, blue horizons.
See what I'm saying?
We adore each other.
We have fun.
We mesh.
It feels odd.
I'm used to the hunt.
This iseffortless.
It's freaking me out.
Maybe I'm not used to being with someone who doesn't do the seductive withholding dance.
Are you dating a man or a mini-van?
I'm more a student of chaos theory.
That evening, as Charlotte began her new career as a husband-hunter, Miranda returned home to feather her stress-free love nest.
An hour later it was on to dessert.
Followed by exactly eight minutes of no-frills sex.
And 12 minutes of "Front Line".
Theirs was the kind of closeness that only came from true intimacy.
Samantha was experiencing intimacy that only came from anonymity.
His name was Dr.
Mark Raskin.
An ear, nose and throat man that Samantha met actually we're not sure where.
Suffice to say it happened quickly.
While Samantha enjoyed the thrill of the new and Miranda's relationship happily floated on a placid sea I was searching for hidden icebergs.
Why are you still single?
- Don't do that.
I hate it when guys act all cute.
- What? -
OK.
I'm a bitch.
I'm sorry.
You should know I get a tad bitchy from time to time.
I'm sure you have your bad traits.
And they would be?
- Whatever you got.
It's all gonna come out eventually, so I'd like to know now and that way I can decide if I'd like to deal with it or not.
Again I'm sorry, but this relationship cannot just sail on like it is: perfect.
Frankly, I can't take the pressure.
Seriously.
What the hell is wrong with you that you're not married?
- Tell me.
Go with the flow? No, I can't do that.
It's so seventies.
- That's so
That is really nice.
So, these parents that are coming to town do they know what's wrong with you? Let's get you a doughnut.
The next evening, taking a page from "Marriage lncorporated", Charlotte had dinner with her married friends, Amy and Dennis.
The next morning before work, while sorting Steve's laundry, Miranda came face to face with the true meaning of intimacy.
Why, what happened?
- Oh, no! Terrible.
I don't know but it goes hand in hand with urinating on the seat.
It's certainly the end of laundry night.
- How often are you having sex?
- It's nice to be a contestant, isn't it?
Do you remember how Big kept me away from his mother?
- And how pissed it used to make me? Now, Aidan's offering both his parents on a silver platter and I'm not sure I want to meet them.
The irony is Aidan's acting exactly how I wish Big would have behaved.
And I'm behaving just like Big.
When things come too easy, we're suspect.
Do they have to get complicated before we believe they're for real? We're raised to believe that true love never runs smoothly.
There always have to be obstacles in Act Two before you can live happily ever after in Act Three.
But what happens when the obstacles aren't there? Does that mean there's something missing? Do we need drama to make a relationship work? A few days later, still hearing no word from Dennis about her date Charlotte made a call to his office.
Her call unanswered, Charlotte followed up persistently.
While Charlotte was a woman on the verge of a nervous breakdown my anxiety-free relationship was driving me crazy.
Excuse me.
- That's all right.
I'm gonna have to pass on dinner.
It's getting so late.
I've got a deadline.
I've been thinking about this meeting your parents.
- I just wondered if it's a good idea.
No, I'm not worried about that.
Parents always think I'm adorable.
- Well What if they love me and if we break up you'll always have to explain to them what happened to the adorable girl.
- No.
Where I come from, meeting the parents Oh, so big!
- OK.
So, I guess we won't be seeing each other this weekend.
- Maybe that's good.
Maybe we should see each other less then we can miss each other more.
You're so available to me, and I'm so available to you.
Maybe we're both too available.
You always say the right things.
- Goodbye.
This is nuts.
I'm sabotaging the best relationship I've ever had.
- I guess.
So glad it worked out for you.
- Who are you calling?
- What are we seeing again?
Samantha officially became the first woman to land on the moon.
- Even more so with a man.
It's quite a lovely evening you planned for a man you've never even met.
- Thanks.
You knowwhat, honey, I'm not feeling well.
I'm going home.
- No, I'm fine.
Stay, enjoy.
I'll call you.
I knew it was rude and over-dramatic, but I felt like I'd just seen the phantom of the opera.
Yes, ditching Charlotte was slightly hysterical, but the idea of sitting across from Big and Natasha through the second act of "Aida" was too emotional to bear.
This time I knew what was wrong.
The shock of seeing Big again not only made my stomach flip it sent my spleen leaping right into my throat.
- It's me.
I'm really sorry.
- I saw Big tonight at the opera.
- She told you.
Was she pissed?
- Yeah.
I'm great actually.
I'm realizing that maybe there is something to this available man thing.
Now I know I wanna be with a man who wants to be with me.
I've had enough relationship drama for one lifetime.
It's 3:00 am.
I'll wait until a more civilized hour.
The next morning I waited until a decent hour to call Aidan and tell him how much I missed him.
- Hi, it's Carrie calling for Aidan.
- He's not?
- Just tell him I called.
- Thanks.
When I hadn't heard from him by that evening I began to get butterflies in my stomach.
Hey.
It's Carrie.
Remember me? The girl you wanted to introduce to your parents.
I'm just calling to say hey.
Hey.
I was getting a dreaded feeling that I had played this all wrong.
Suddenly, the idea of losing Aidan left me short of breath.
Meanwhile, Miranda was trying not to breathe near Steve's shorts.
But there's nothing like a twist in the third act to spice up even the most banal scenario.
And while Miranda and Steve found new life in the familiar, Charlotte was blindly feeling her way through the unfamiliar.
And that's how, in the most dramatic fashion, Charlotte met her new leading man.
Mark realized he had brought too much intensity to their relationship.
He wrote Samantha a prescription and she promised never to call him again.
After two days of not hearing from Aidan, I realized only a dramatic gesture could salvage things.
You asked me to be here, and I wasn't sure if I could.
Honestly I mean, meeting the parents is so Then I realized I wanna meet them but I didn't know if you still wanted me to.
I've called and you haven't called me, so then I thought I'm just gonna go, because being in a relationship means taking a riska leap of faith.
No matter how many times one might have been disappointed before.
I said to myself I'm just gonna show upbecause you're a good man.
A really good man.
- Why haven't you called me back?
Really? You don't have to do everything I say.
- Won't they think I'm nuts?
I realized then, that I had made my stomach flip all on my own.
And it felt really nice.
Manhattan is a place you can get anything anytime.
Cabs at 2:00 am.
Chinese food at 3:00.
But you can't get your dry-cleaning.
Charlotte was spending her time with Trey, a doctor from family money who had it all.
All, but all of Charlotte.
Apparently Trey was one New Yorker not getting everything anytime.
Avenue?
Then did your physics homework with you?
You've only known him for two weeks.
You can know his e-mail address, but not that he's the one.
Oh, so you're everything-but-girl.
Howvery ninth grade of you.
And probably quite frisky.
Who wants their virginity back? It was bad enough the first time.
Eleventh grade.
Seth Bateman.
His smelly rec room.
Half a joint, three thrusts, finito.
And ps, it was on the ping-pong table.
Meanwhile, I was doing everything plus with Aidan.
I couldn't get out of bed with him.
My bed was our restaurant, our entertainment, our little New York.
Open 24 hours.
When will they send a search party for us?
- That's an awful long time, my friend.
Downtown another New Yorker was enjoying her full life.
Samantha had a new apartment in the ultra chic Meatpacking District and a new admirer.
Samantha said sorry but what she really meant was Since when is it acceptable for over-the-hill losers to ask out hot women like her?
And just when Samantha thought her day couldn't get any worse
You're on the wrong mailing list.
- You got a back pillow?
" But people give up their seats for you on the bus.
Man, she's good.
No more mind-numbing cramps.
- I hear that, sister.
If Samantha was running late, I was running even later.
The "Gab Magazine" party was in an hour and my dress was at the cleaners.
Oh, please, sir! Shit.
Apparently my fabulous party dress would be staying in for the evening.
Miranda and Steve decided instead of staying in, they'd go out.
While Miranda was left contemplating diapers I was contemplating McQueen versus Gucci.
It's your last chance to attend a fabulous party with a fabulous girl.
- Correction: fancy boat.
And ps, the fabulous girl is rumored to be easy.
- This new magazine, "Gab".
- No, I want the celebrity sightings.
And celebrity hangers-on.
- Of course.
- Is that a proposition?
Bye.
The "Gab" party was everything they promised and more.
Regis Philbin, Madonna and "New Yorker" ex-editors were there.
Unfortunately, Trey was doing most of the gabbing.
- That's very sweet.
- It's OK, cos I remember.
I'd heard the story at least three times.
Another minute of Trey and we would be in a man overboard situation.
- Hey, I'm gonna go to hit the buffet.
As I walked away, I realised I hadn't seen Charlotte that happy in years and with a man she had known for five minutes.
And just when I thought I was safe
- Oh, hi.
Cheese.
Hello.
- Right.
Well, hi.
You did?
- Where's Natasha?
Very crowded.
Well, I gotta Dominick Dunne is holding my place in the bathroom line.
Big and l, trapped together on a boat without dates.
We were two miles offshore.
There was no way off.
Children and women with emotional baggage first.
Wow.
Cartier.
Let's see.
"To Charlotte.
It's about time I met you.
" Sweetie, that's great.
- When does this boat dock?
- What time is it?
- It's pretty.
One woman's "Titanic" is another woman's "Love Boat".
- Jesus.
I I don't know.
- I don't know.
Can we?
- What a spiffy opener.
- Yeah, I am.
He's great.
He's perfect, actually.
He's home.
I didn't wanna subject him to the slimy media leeches.
Present company excluded.
- Really? Do you think so? If you like this, you'll love the one being held hostage on 74th and Lex.
It's good to see you.
The next morning I recovered from my see-Big sickness, while downtown, Samantha realised maybe her ship had sailed.
She was five days late.
Later we did brunch and bathroom at Time Cafe.
- I'm not Tampax central.
Buy them.
- Men I meet are flashing yellows.
They shouldn't be allowed to get behind the wheel!
That was my last tampon.
Are you packing?
- A "no" is good enough.
- Come on.
You're overreacting.
- It was a stupid catalogue.
That night I couldn't stop thinking about time.
Was every second of our lives controlled by fate? Or is life a series of random occurrences? If I wasn't always ten minutes late, would my life be totally different? Would I never run into Big? Would there ever be a good time to see him? Was Miranda right? Is timing everything?
Then Miranda realised she may have already had a baby in her house.
You can always go the lmmaculate Conception route.
- What is wrong with you guys?
Oh, I believe you.
This baby is gonna need a lot of therapy.
- OK, mean mommy.
with those martinis at lunch.
That night, Samantha got drunk.
She had lost her spirit and no pill in the catalogue could correct that.
And so she accepted a date with Len.
After all, day-old bread needed to stick together.
Samantha couldn't listen to one more minute of Len
So she slept with him and his hip to shut him up.
Samantha said sorry.
What she really meant was there are more young studs in this pre-pre-menopausal woman's future.
The next day, Miranda was putting in time and a half at her firm when
Miranda had been backed into a corner
Even though she was surrounded by bitches, she didn't wanna be one.
Charlotte and Trey were performing their usual duet.
That night, Charlotte got everything she wanted.
Trey got a hand job.
And at 3:00 am Miranda was getting nothing but aggravated.
Then Miranda realised something.
All this time, she thought the problem was her.
It wasn't.
It was them.
And there was never a good time to say what she had to say.
That night, Miranda lost her partner.
The next day, she got a new one.
Fifteen of them.
Meanwhile, I was still enjoying my one.
Do you wanna have a sleepover?
I didn't know about Aidan but my light was definitely on.
I knewwho it was.
I couldn't stop Big coming back into my life.
But I could stop him from coming out of my machine.
- Yeah?
- OK.
Oh, that was very fast.
- What are you doing here?
No, I paused it.
- What are you doing here?
- Yes and he's coming back, so Please.
What do you want?
No, go home to your wife.
Go.
I had no idea what else Big was gonna say.
And I'm not sure what bugged me more.
That I didn't know or that I cared.
There it was.
Exactly what I had needed to hear a year too late.
I should have been happy, but I wasn't.
It was the absolute worst timing of all.
Ten minutes later, Aidan still hadn't come back.
Suddenly my life was all about timing.
All the right things said at all the wrong times.
My past coming back way too fast.
And my future taking way too long to come home.
One unfortunate thing about ending a relationship in a city like New York is while you can emotionally move away from each other, you physically can't.
There was nothing brief about it.
Steve and Miranda had been doing the polite avoid-each-other break-up-dance for three weeks.
When you find that place to move, you need to fill it with furniture.
That's why smart New Yorkers frequent the opening day of the New Designer showcase.
I'm like your roady.
- Yeah, I'm your booth-bitch.
I wax your wood.
That's because I'm your booth-bitch.
Whatever you say.
I'm your booth-bitch.
I didn't need a blue-ribbon panel to decide - he was the finest new designer in the whole place.
I'd often fantasized about running into my ex and his wife, but in those fantasies I was running into them with a truck.
- Hi.
Hi.
I'm working here.
I mean, I'm not working.
This is my boyfriend's booth.
I'm his booth-bitch.
- That's a joke.
Guess it's an in-joke.
So.
Can I showyou something in a hutch?
This is the designer.
This is Aidan.
There we were.
Mostly maple and incredibly uncomfortable.
- Oh, I'm sorry.
These are my friends.
This is Natasha, and this is Shit.
Sorry, is that hot?
- Here.
- Yeah, don't they?
- From around.
Like 100 years ago.
It's a past life.
Two hours later, it was time for the opening-day party.
It was lovely.
Caviar, silent auctions, and landmines.
If you're referring to my boyfriend - he's doing business.
How many drinks have you had?
I'm great.
His name is Aidan.
- Where is your wife?
I thought you wanted beige.
- I quit.
We did a lot of things that were bad for me together.
You should keep that to yourself.
No one wants that information.
- Big's leaving his wife.
- He told me at the furniture show.
- Drinking and leaving his wife.
- Was there a contest?
- He said, "It's not working out.
" Then he leaned in and said, "lf you know anyone who's interested"
- I'm aware of that.
To save postage on his newsletter?
- Nothing.
- You're starting to bug me.
Even if he did, I have no intention of doing anything for two reasons - I have a great boyfriend, and I'm not insane.
Let's order.
What do winners order?
No.
It was too sad or something.
Who wants to split a Reuben?
Oh, my God.
As Miranda looked around, she realized the contest was over.
Steve was the ex that was going to die alone and miserable.
- Guilt?
There should be a city-funded break-up housing for those in need.
A big orphanage where old boyfriends could think about what they did wrong and cry themselves to sleep in a clean, safe environment.
You think you don't really want him to move away?
It's a common belief that women use the left, emotional side of their brain and men the right, more logical side.
But is it really that cut and dry? When it comes to affairs of the heart, there's a battle between what we know and what we feel.
What do you do in a situation that leaps back and forth between the left and right side? In relationships, is it smarter to follow your heart or your head?
Later that week, Charlotte met the head and heart of Trey's family - his mother, Bunny.
Charlotte was impressed with Bunny's technique.
Trey had been looking forward to Cloche all week.
Meanwhile, downtown, Samantha was entertaining Adam Ball, a film editor who made a living cutting coming attractions for film companies.
- Might I suggest, no one?
Can I cancel my rice pudding?
They should put that on the pack to cut back sales.
- You should write to Martha Stewart.
Dear funky spunk, try a hint of mint.
- That is serious.
Casual head is back now?
As long as you and the center for disease control are fine with it.
Miranda came home to something that was even harder to swallow.
And on an answering machine across town
The right side of my brain told me to delete it.
But I left it.
Seven playbacks later, I invited an impartial judge.
- Well?
He wants to get back together, right? That's the tone.
The "Hi" and the "It's important".
Is that what it means?
- What should I do? -
I don't know.After the fifth playback he got in a little.
- I hate my machine.
- Already? He's still on your couch.
Depressing.
Let's listen to that message again.
I'm deleting it.
But it wasn't that simple.
As soon as Miranda left, my emotions overruled both sides of my brain.
- It's Carrie.
I didn't knowwhy I called or what I wanted, but suddenly my heart was racing.
You do that.
It was what I needed.
A shock treatment to jolt me back to sanity.
- Excuse me?
- Just three years.
I can't afford it.
- I needed those.
I don't know how to do that stuff.
- lsn't that a lot of work?
Sure? Really?
Here am I with a guy who wanted to make my home better.
It wasn't a left or right-brainer, it was a no-brainer.
After a browse on the healthysperm.
Samantha fought the urge not to tell Adam Ball he didn't knowfrom funky.
An hour and a half, two wheat grass shots and a ginger-melon smoothie later, I'm coming.
Charlotte knewthis was the moment, that magic moment where Trey was going to ask her to be his wife.
Really? - That's wonderful, sweetie.
- What?
What did he say?
" "All righty"?
He said, "All righty"? The upsetting thing is proposing to a guy who says "all righty".
- All righty.
- Who cares about those stupid rules?
You're overreacting.
You love Trey, right? And you want to marry him, right?
Miranda realized he was with the girl executive.
It was officially over.
She finally got it into her head.
Aidan.
You said I wouldn't be bothered.
I'm bothered.
- Yeah.
I've got a deadline.
- No, I can't write there.
Pete's jumping all over me.
He's deleting things.
I'm leaving.
I'll be at the Stanhope Hotel.
- No, I got it.
This is why I don't do home repairs.
Unforeseen costs.
She was engaged to her heart's desire.
Unfortunately, she couldn't get the way it happened out of her head.
From that moment on, Charlotte would tell everyone that in front of Tiffany's, out of nowhere, Trey popped the question.
Ten minutes later, Samantha learnt how far men would go for a blow job.
She gave him head, but her heart wasn't in it.
- Hello?
- How did you know I was here?
- You called my house again?
- I have to talk to you too.
Stay there.
Shit.
- This is not the lobby.
What are you doing, calling my house, following me to hotels?
I don't have time.
I have a boyfriend and a deadline, and you have a wife and a drinking problem.
- Then what is your excuse?
- Yes.
So, what?
This has to stop - flirting, jerking me around, calling my boyfriend.
He doesn't know about you, and I don't want him to.
Go, lie in your beige bed.
Too bad.
- Do not come in here.
What? What is it you have to say?
Fuck you.
Fuck you.
My mind was yelling how angry I was, but my heart Fuck me.
And just like that I lost my head.
One ofthe best things about being in a great relationship is feeling comfortable enough to leave it for an evening.
The usual stuff - braid our hair, crank calls, and that weekend stuff.
I can't lie.
Sometimes there is talk of the boys.
- I thought it was hair loss.
- I can tell.
I'll try to work that into the conversation.
- Goodbye.
EB White said no one should come to New York unless they're lucky.
I was.
I had an amazing boyfriend who had all his hair, good friends and a married ex-boyfriend I had slept with a week ago.
May I just say, "Wow!"
Samantha had invited us to celebrate her new apartment, three new clients and her general fabulousness.
There's an ad-slogan.
- You just have three drunk friends.
Three hours later, Deborah Kerr had revealed her secret to Cary Grant, and I'd still told no one mine.
- I slept with Big last week.
No, no affair.
Just one night, and it is not happening again.
- Please don't tell the others.
I am awful.
I have this great boyfriend.
I don't know what I was doing.
It was great, and it's not happening again.
How can it feel so good when it's so bad?
Big and l We have this thing.
I have a great boyfriend with all his hair, waiting for me, who smells great.
- The rules according to Samantha?
I don't wanna be a free agent.
Don't you wanna judge me, just a little bit?
Hi.
God, I missed you.
Suddenly I felt safe again.
It had all just been a bad dream.
As long as I was near Aidan, it would all be OK.
Until the morning.
Why do you have to go to Pennsylvania today?
Go tomorrow.
Come on, stay.
- I'll make you cookies.
I'll buy you cookies.
Come on, stay.
What I needed to do was not be alone.
Downtown, Samantha woke up to discover she did have it all.
Including the flu.
She never wanted a man around in the morning, until she needed one.
Later, in the bridal registry department at Bergdorf Goodman, Charlotte discovered, she wanted it all, and more.
Sweetie? What's this?
Charlotte wasted no time having a lawyer look it over.
A lot of people do prenups.
I'm safe.
What's he gonna take from me - shoes? Maybe I do need one.
- Maybe that's your wholesale price.
How much for girls?
- That's bad business.
- You're hip and trendy?
Well, well, well, they sure grow 'em cute in the Midwest.
and two pages of her black book later, Samantha was no closer to closing her deal.
Samantha was discovering it was easier to find a guy to screw her than one who'd screw in her curtain rod.
She wasn't the only one who needed a fix.
I did everything I could to keep busy until Aidan came back.
I re-arranged my sweaters, defrosted my fridge broke into my emergency hidden stash, and thought about choices.
Modern women have been told that we can be anything we want - an astronaut, the head of an lnternet company, a stay-at-home mom.
There aren't any rules.
Choices are endless.
And apparently, they can all be delivered to your door.
Is it possible that we've gotten so spoiled by choices that we've become unable to make one? That we know that once you choose something, one man, one great apartment, one amazing job, another option goes away? Are we a generation who can't choose just one from column 'A'? Did we have too much to handle, or was Samantha right? Can we have it all? Two hours later, I had filed every article I'd ever written, but I couldn't file away what had happened with Big.
I made a choice.
I called him.
- It's me, Carrie.
I'm good, fine.
OK.
We need to talk about what happened.
- Yes.
Rationally and right now.
- It was just a physical thing.
We gave in to our baser instincts, shit happens, blah blah blah.
- No.
- It can't happen.
You're married.
That is so not the point.
We're intelligent beings.
We have to learn to rise above the physical stuff.
Apparently we couldn't.
He doesn't wear cologne.
By the way, there will be no next time.
This is gonna be like "The Bridges Of Madison Avenue".
A brief affair I'll write about to my grandchildren.
Maybe a goatee.
It all felt so easy and so good.
I was like the moth to the old flame.
Meanwhile that night, Miranda was enjoying her new flame.
The next night, Miranda was surprised to hear from George.
They talked for two hours about everything.
Favorite foods, families It was one of the best dates Miranda had had.
That night, Miranda started sleeping with George regularly.
She had it all - her own life, and a great boyfriend she could count on.
He always called, and she always came to the phone.
While Miranda came, I was busy preparing for Aidan to come back.
I had slept in Big's and my sex-sheets for two days.
Like any good junky, I knew how to hide the evidence.
Hey, you.
I was sure he saw the scarlet 'A' on my chest.
If Big could smell him, could he smell Big on me?
I should send you to Pennsylvania more often.
- You did, did you?
- No.
I love you too.
Not only was my secret safe, but I had become lovable.
I felt awful.
And so good.
- Wait.
No sheets.
The next night, Miranda was going to third with George when her second line beeped.
The next night, I went to take care of Samantha.
Which for Samantha meant making her mom's childhood remedy - cough syrup and Fanta orange soda over ice.
No offence, but this is about to make me sicker than you.
A frosted martini glass would make that more appetizing.
Why don't you ask the super to fix your window? .
- Sweetie, calm down.
Three days of sleep deprivation had turned Samantha into a new woman - Charlotte.
For someone who had it all, she had never felt more alone.
I'd slept with both of them in the last 48 hours.
We are not alone.
We have each other.
- Bed?
Three days of rest later, three healthy girls attended a very uptown party.
- Look, headbands are back.
Amazing what days of a cough syrup and Fanta diet will do for the appetite.
- What are you gonna do?
- We can't tell you what to do.
I wasn't one to talk about marriage, considering I might break one up.
It depends how much you want to marry Trey.
Charlotte realized, if she wanted to close the deal with Trey, she'd have to close the deal with Bunny first.
Not only would she have to negotiate, she'd have to play hardball.
That's great.
It was then that we realized that we didn't have it all.
We no longer had Charlotte.
Then, there were three.
I thought you were Ms Pro Marriage now.
After a week full of Aidan and no cigarettes, I felt like I had finally kicked my addiction.
- What?
- I was getting there.
Then my addiction found me.
- Hello.
- Miranda, I'll call you back.
Right, I'll call you later.
I told Aidan I was taking Pete for a walk.
Don't ever call me at home again.
Walk.
You can't just decide you wanna see me, and I'm there.
- Yes.
You want it all - the girl you screw, and the girl you go home to.
- What? -
No, No!
Married men don't just leave their I have a man who loves me, and you have a wife who loves you.
You have no right to do this.
You can't come and fuck up my life.
Shit.
Pete.
Oh, shit! -
- Pete! - Pete! Oh, shit.
Excuse me.
Pete! Shit.
- Pete.
God.
Shit! No.
Go home.
Don't tell anyone.
Don't do anything.
- This isn't helping.
Go home.
Back at Miranda's home, things were heating up as well.
Miranda stopped being hung up on George.
So she hung up on him.
Three hours later, I hadn't found Pete, and I felt as lost as he was.
I had a man who loved me, and a man who wanted to leave his wife for me.
I should have been on top of the world, but I didn't feel like I had it all.
I felt like nothing.
I had lost Pete, and I would probably lose Aidan.
I decided to come clean.
Oh, my God.
Pete's here? Oh, my God, I lost him.
I lost him and I looked for him and Oh, my Pete, come here.
Come here.
Oh, God.
- I'm an awful girlfriend.
- I'm awful.
So had l.
- OK.
Yeah.
Yeah, I am.
It was the truth.
- I really want to.
That was, too.
- Room service.
You've been waiting your whole life to say that.
I have to be some place in three hours.
When Dickens wrote, "lt was the best "of times, it was the worst of times", he must have been having an affair with his married ex-boyfriend.
It's me.
You can't keep changing the time.
I have a schedule too.
- I have to put my diaphragm in.
I know.
Our affair like our hotels had gone from elegant with crystal to seedy with plastic cups.
God, it's hot in here, and the windows don't even open
I hate those sliding air strip things.
I need air.
Because it's on 56th and 8th, where nobody knows us.
- 56th and 8th is safe.
Yes, you do.
I do, too.
You want people to get hurt?
It's too hot, I can't do this.
No.
You don't talk to me that way.
How did we get here? Who are we?
I have to tell you something.
You won't like it.
I'd rather tell anyone but you, but I have to.
- Because I need your help.
I'm having an affair with Big.
Also, I'm smoking again.
I'm smoking and sleeping with Big.
Feel free to delete me out of your Palm Pilot.
- Really?
- You are such a good friend.
Don't inhale.
Say you don't hate me.
- Thank you.
If only I didn't hate me.
- Forever.
Actual time - three weeks.
I'm in the middle of this, and I can't see.
I need you to yank me out of it.
Say stuff to yank me out of it.
- Exactly.
What about Aidan? What about him? I would die if he found out.
Big's acting jealous.
I'm afraid he'll call him or do something stupid.
- He's threatened to tell Natasha.
I didn't think.
I just did.
I'm terrified we've messed it up and it can never be what it was supposed to be.
- It's a big mess.
I'm confused.
Does he only want me because he can't have me?
- How do you really feel?
I want everyone to get out of this without getting hurt.
- Why not? You've heard stories about affairs where people realise how great their other relationship is and end it without anyone being the wiser.
I am.
I'm stopping.
- I am.
- Samantha.
- And God.
If the-world-according-to-bride knew, she'd kill me.
While Miranda was trying not to judge me on the Upper East Side, Samantha was judging the crowd at a hot spot on the Lower West Side.
It was a typical mix - ten per cent Wall Street, ten per cent real estate, ten per cent she'd slept with.
His name was Tom Reymi.
A Manhattan legend - straight, single, and sexually very active.
The male Samantha.
Samantha didn't know howto tell Tom Reymi that the only sex test she'd ever taken was the Cosmo Quiz.
Samantha had to figure out just how much she wanted to do Reymi.
- And I'll take "Annoying Bride"?
- Okey-dokey.
- It's pretty.
I like the flowers.
Good morning.
Where did that come from?
- You've never had an HlV test?
Two.
She doesn't mean that the way it sounds.
It's just
Why not?
- You don't have it.
That's air conditioning.
Just get it over with.
The test is nothing.
The worst part is waiting for the results.
Later, I got thinking about safe sex.
Odd how only when our physical life is at risk, do we protect ourselves.
What about our emotional lives? Wouldn't it be nice if there was a pamphlet to warn us what behaviour might be high risk to ourselves or our relationships? Even if you take precautions and emotionally try to protect yourself, when you crawl in bed with someone, is sex ever safe?
The next day, Miranda experienced a different type of high risk behaviour.
Miranda was furious.
It was bad enough she had just lost a case, but now she was being harassed by a sandwich.
You want the perfect wedding dress, go to Anthony, stylist.
Charlotte was thrilled.
Anthony was like the pushy mother she never had.
Across town, Samantha felt as though she might cry as well.
While Samantha tried to remember her sexual past, I came face to face with my sexual present.
- Stop.
You're making that sound. That kissing sound.
It's annoying.
I can't breathe.
I can't breathe.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
- Where are you going?
I'm in a weird place right now, but I'll be out of it soon.
I promise.
I'm sorry.
Say it's OK.
- Nothing, it's me.
It's all me.
- I just need time to figure it out.
You're not saying that in a bad way, right?
Hey, buddy.
Call me later?
Make the noise.
Please make the noise.
Sorry.
I didn't know what I was doing, but I was sure I had just entered high-risk relationship behaviour.
Three days later, Miranda had got her fill of the sandwich.
Then Miranda glimpsed just enough of his full lips and shiny white teeth to stop thinking about the sandwich and start wondering about the man inside.
You're turned on by a sandwich?
- That is one fresh sandwich.
I don't know.
You think he's white meat? That's the first laugh I've had in weeks.
Thank the sandwich when you have sex.
I never thought I'd have sex with a married ex. Can a hoagy be that far behind? Miranda, what the hell am I gonna do?
As Samantha waited for her results, she had one thought over and over.
"Don't let them take me into that little room.
Samantha began to realise she was being taken into that little room.
She was healthy.
The nurse just wanted a quiet place to lecture her on safe sex practises.
Days later, somehow I found myself back at the corner of 56th and Safeth.
- Excuse me?
I'm out of here.
That Japanese businessman thinks I'm a hooker.
Charlotte
Charlotte.
That was that.
Now nowhere was safe.
Not even 56th and 8th.
It was a force bigger than me, like Niagara Falls, you know?
- I know he's married.
I'm not the other woman.
I'm not.
I mean I know I am, but I am not that woman.
Please, I feel bad enough already.
- I think about it all the time.
- I'll suffocate myself in this.
I would kill them.
I'm getting out.
Can I please help you pack now? So we stood and bubble-wrapped, the bride to be and her maid of dishonour.
A week of fantasising sex with the sandwich man had gotten to Miranda.
Safe or not, she needed to see who she was dealing with.
Even though he was cute, Miranda walked away.
What did they have in common? She was a lawyer.
He was a sandwich.
Later, at Tom Reymi's, after a week of sheer anxiety, Samantha enjoyed the benefits of totally safe sex.
It was the lowest of the low.
I had made love to my married ex-boyfriend on his lunch hour at his apartment, while his 25-year-old wife was sunning herself at the Hamptons.
- Jesus.
Could I feel any more like a hooker?
We should stop seeing each other.
You're married.
Don't be ridiculous.
What are you gonna do - call her at the beach and say you love me and want a divorce? You don't want me to call her because you love that other guy.
- He has a name.
It's Aidan.
- You have a wife, Natasha.
You could have told her by now.
Here.
Call her.
Are we gonna do this, really? I mean, out in the daylight, no cocktails, no hotel rooms, real life?
I need more time.
I couldn't help but wonder if I really did knowthe way to let myself out.
Charlotte was right.
What did l really know about Natasha? Natasha is a woman who likes tea roses.
Natasha collects antique sugar bowls.
Natasha comes home from the Hamptons early.
Oh my God! I had assumed, the one who would be hurt would be me.
Taxi! Nearest hospital.
She lost a tooth and needed a stitch in her lip.
They had a plastic surgeon, and it won't scar.
She's scared and swollen.
Her parents are on the way.
I have to go.
For what? We're so over.
We need a newword for "over".
I went to a museum. Just walking around.
- It was good.
- I'll just wash my face.
I'll be right in.
Somehow, I had found a way to let myself out of the mess.
I'd made it home.
For Miranda, the only thing worse than being Charlotte's 34-year-old bridesmaid was being a 34-year-old bridesmaid without a date.
With the wedding approaching, Miranda fell prey to the siren song of a singles event.
Multi-dating.
$20 bought you seven mini-dates, each eight minutes long which is as long as blind dates should be.
But before the wedding bells, there's the rehearsal dinner.
- You said you were a stewardess.
- The theory being
They
I was the liar.
I'd finally ended my affair with Big, but the guilt of lying to Aidan was like a hangover I couldn't sleep off.
- The correct term is "flight attendant".
And it would make you look schizo.
We got off easy.
The groomsmen have to wear kilts.
Samantha could barely understand him.
But if his tongue could do that, she wondered what it could do to her.
Samantha wasn't the only one feeling lost.
- I'm thinking I have to tell him.
Aidan.
I might have to tell him about Big.
- I don't know.
Relationships are supposed to be built on trust.
- What if he finds out?
That might mean more coming from someone not posing as a stewardess.
Nothing, but at your wedding we have to pretend Miranda's a stewardess.
- Tuesday? Oh, my God.
Was that a Schoolhouse Rock I missed?
- Don't do this.
I started thinking about honesty.
Maybe the idea was overrated.
Maybe coming clean is the ultimate selfish act, a way to absolve yourself by hurting someone who doesn't deserve to be hurt.
I cheated on a test in the fifth grade with two friends.
They confessed and failed the class.
I never told anyone, and it never mattered.
In a relationship, is honesty really the best policy? Evidently, dishonesty was the best policy for Miranda.
As a stewardess, she was a charming date.
That night, Harris got to make love to a stewardess.
Miranda didn't have to fake anything.
Days later, the four of us celebrated Charlotte's last night as a single woman.
Oh, yeah. I'm headed for a storybook ending.
The little girl had an affair, lied to her boyfriend, and lived happily ever after.
- All right then.
- Excuse me?
- Sweetie, you're not a virgin.
Those of us not getting married celebrated with a booty call.
Samantha's vertical Scotch tasting that turned into a horizontal one.
She couldn't understand him, but understood he was hard.
I decided to crawl into bed with Aidan, but he wasn't in his bed.
I was trying to surprise you.
I see that.
What are you working on?
- This is for Charlotte and Trey?
You didn't have to make something.
We could have picked a piece.
I know, but this is too nice.
God, I was about to get them steak knives.
What does it mean?
- That I get.
A mixed drink.
- Right, that too.
It's really nicer than anyone deserves.
Flaws can be good?.
This was the time to tell him.
I could feel the words inside me.
But if I told him, could he still love me? I wasn't ready to find out.
There was another booty call that night.
Charlotte couldn't sleep at all that night.
Neither could l.
All I could think about was that I was a cheater.
I cheated and lied in fifth grade, and I was still doing it.
- What do you mean? Us?
I tried to quit.
I just couldn't.
- You said you can't date a smoker.
- Oh, yeah? What's your flaw?
I don't know.
That was another lie.
I knewwhat his flawwas.
It was trusting me with his heart.
- Aidan, I need to tell you something.
But suddenly I couldn't tell him.
I was afraid he'd never look at me that way again.
So I didn't.
I love you.
- No, I should get home.
My stuff's at home, the stuff for the wedding.
I'm the maid of honor.
I need to be presentable.
No, stay here.
Just pick me up in the morning.
I'll get my stuff.
I have to go.
For a moment, Miranda considered coming clean.
But then they'd both be liars, and he wouldn't have slept with a stewardess.
I'm running late.
Charlotte will never forgive me.
I need to
What's that?
- That love seat packs up nice.
It's not that kind of wedding.
We're gonna be late.
I'm just gonna grab my I was supposed to be at the church ten minutes ago.
- I'm not running away.
Aidan, I slept with my ex-boyfriend.
You met him at the furniture show.
Then we slept together.
I didn't tell you, and I'm sorry.
- No, more than once.
He was married.
It was a mess.
I don't knowwhat I was thinking.
I wasn't thinking.
It's so over.
And it was wrong.
I just hope you can
What about the wedding?
- Will you meet me there later? -
The wedding was complete.
Charlotte had something old, something new, something borrowed, and someone Samantha blew.
- I'm sorry I'm so late.
Jeez, you look perfect.
Honestly.
- OK.
Despite all her bitching, Samantha enjoyed being a bridesmaid.
Miranda, back to being herself, found a last-minute date.
- Right now?
- What?
- Was he drunk?
Then it must have been wedding-night jitters.
Since she was in the white dress, I reached for a white lie.
Happens to everybody.
Maybe he jerked off before you got there, and he was too embarrassed to tell you.
- And he loves you.
If you don't wanna go through this, you don't have to.
We'll just get a cab, and everyone will just have to get over it.
- OK, go.
Charlotte was 34, single, and standing in a $14,000 dress.
She was getting married.
Not even a low libido could stop her.
- Could you hold this for a second?
Hey, you.
I'm so sorry, Aidan.
I never meant to hurt you.
But I did.
I'm sorry.
Couldn't it be like the wood? That's my flaw, and and you're the other wood, and that makes us stronger.
I just wanted to be honest with you.
People make mistakes.
- OK.
I told him.
It's hard to find people who will love you no matter what.
I was lucky enough to find three of them.
NewYork City - dreary, gray, miserable.
Or was that just me? After a sordid affair with my ex-boyfriend, and a break-up with my current one, it was time for a change of scenery.
And I wasn't alone.
While we planned our escape, Charlotte celebrated her return.
She and Trey had just returned from Bermuda.
No, I don't.
It's a little company that's just talking about optioning my columns.
Bermudas in Bermuda. You kids were crazy down there!
- Lovely.
- The car's picking us up at one.
Good.
How are you? .
I told Aidan about the affair.
He broke up with me.
- You win.
Shall we get more coffee or shall we get guns and kill ourselves?
After many days of golf, Charlotte's handicap had gone down twelve.
Trey's handicap had stayed the same.
- lmpotence is a common problem.
Well.
All right then.
Glad you solved that.
- What do you want me to say?.
- Right.
Nothing good. I only agreed to this trip to get away from Aidan and the whole mess.
Let's go to Barneys.
I can't go to Los Angeles without new shoes.
- All right.
- Call me if you need me.
Later, three single New Yorkers arrived in the City of Angels.
- You and me both, sister.
- The want ads? -
- Words I'm never fond of hearing.
- There should be three reservations.
She's from New York.
- Don't complain about my smoking.
- Excuse me?
Words I'm even less fond of hearing.
Later, decked out in our "New York goes to LA" finest, we were ready for a night on the town.
- OK, I'm ready.
- Let's go.
Back in the hotel bar, we realized the three-hour time difference made us three hours late for cocktail hour.
As Samantha said goodbye to Mr.
Dildo, Miranda said hello to Mr.
Dique.
Mr.
Jason Dique.
I was having drinks with the most feared creature in Los Angeles - the junior development executive.
- Thanks.
I try.
- That's a lot of shit.
- lsn't that a little severe?
- Oh, thanks.
- Drew Barrymore?
- I'm not good with celebrity names.
- That Jennifer Love Something girl?
I'm done guessing.
- Why would he wanna be involved? -
In New York, Charlotte was dealing with a bed that was cold, coldy, cold.
Sleep was the last thing Charlotte hoped Trey would do in bed.
Charlotte walked back to her big Park Avenue bed, wishing she had remembered to register for a sex life.
When visiting LA, there are two things you must do - one is rent a fabulous car, two is learn how to drive it.
- I did a few times in a parking lot.
I love this car. It goes with my outfit.
I believed that cars are to Los Angeles what handbags are to New York.
What's with this hill? LA is supposed to be flat.
- I'm sorry.
Yeah, baby.
A little later, freshly showered and freaked out, I drove to the studio for my meeting with Matthew McConaughey.
- Building five? There aren't any hills in there, are there?
- Thank you.
My God.
Thank you, Matthew McConaughey.
OK.
The central relationship.
I couldn't believe it.
I flew 3,000 miles to have Matthew McConaughey ask what I've asked myself for years? Look at him.
Well I don't particularly think it was just her problem.
He had some commitment issues.
Oh, OK.
Well.
Yeah.
- Are you acting now?
- I am Carrie.
I have The girl said that we would talk about the columns today.
Well, I have a facial at four.
- Do you mind if I smoke?
- What?
That's all right.
After I left the meeting I took a wrong turn and somehow found myself right back where I had started - back in New York, back wondering about Big.
I had come to LA for a vacation, hoping to get away from Big, Aidan, and most of all myself.
Sitting on the fake set, all my issues felt more real than ever.
I couldn't help but wonder - no matter how far you travel or run from it, can you ever really escape your past?
I'm outside.
And it's New York.
In New York, the release of a new book is cause for celebration.
Here in LA, a new line of sex toys will do the trick.
- The answer would be no.
- We want to go.
I am exhausted from McConaughey mania.
I wanna get into bed, go to sleep and pretend this day never happened.
I can't believe how open and "Hi, have sex" this place is.
In New York sex is bottom shelf, paper bag.
- What do you mean?
- Right.
- But how long did she have him? .
- You want to dress like her?
No, because she's a hooker.
That night, Samantha took home the Deluxe Garth.
Next door, I learned that not only could I not escape my past, I couldn't escape my present.
It's not the air.
Your headboard knocked you unconscious.
- No, Ms Snore, you wouldn't.
I'm cranky.
I have another meeting with McConaughey and his partners to brainstorm what goes wrong with "Carrie" and her relationships.
I have to.
I'm their little writer monkey.
Dildos before 10:00am.
I'm all perked up.
Could you put these back? People are staring.
Is that written on your placemat?
Are you saying that Garth has the perfect girth?
As much as I enjoy the fine life-like craftsmanship, I'm going to leave mine with you.
Meanwhile, back in New York and still no closer to being in-put by Trey, Charlotte addressed thank you notes.
Every time she licked a love stamp, it made a mockery of her marriage.
What kind of impotence do you think it is?
- No, no.
Physical or emotional?
- Have you asked him about it?
Here's what to do - put a ring of paper around his penis while he's asleep.
- I sound like a perverted Nancy Drew.
If it rips overnight, he is capable of an erection.
The problem is not physical.
- I have an addiction, sir.
- Yup.
That night, Samantha invited Mr.
Dildo out for dim sum, and then some.
Garth wanted Samantha to know that he was more than just a sex toy.
He had a soft side.
Far away, Charlotte was dealing with Trey's soft side as well.
She was going to get some answers.
She came to bed armed with love.
She went to sleep hoping her male had sufficient postage to deliver his package into her box.
Back at the hotel, Samantha was waiting for a delivery of her own.
Having a fling in LA is one thing, but introducing Mr.
Dildo to everyone at a gala at the Met was quite another.
Just like that, Samantha escaped a life as Mrs.
Dildo.
She moved Garth out of her present and into her past.
But she took the best part of him with her.
I had finally found a place to escape Miranda's snoring.
The ghosts of my relationships past weren't so easy to shake.
I hadn't really moved on from Big and Aidan.
I'd just moved.
I'll put it out, OK?
Sorry, it was my last one.
I am.
As soon as I said it out loud, I knew that that was what I wanted and needed.
Charlotte woke up as excited as a little girl on Christmas morning.
She couldn't wait to see if Trey's package was unwrapped.
For the first time in weeks, Charlotte felt relieved.
Trey's problem wasn't physical.
Then she realized, if it wasn't physical, she couldn't escape that it might be emotional.
There was no easy love stamp solution to fix that.
I am totally digging this scene.
It's so urban cowboy circa 1982.
Don't complain, it's the closest bar without a hill involved.
- Miranda, no.
- No.
Hold on.
We weren't sure if it was the climate or the five beers she drank, but as soon as she got on that bull, Miranda escaped Miranda.
Wow, I can see she really did need a vacation.
The next day, as I pulled up to the studio, I realized, I was the one who held the key to my escape.
I could go in and have someone tell me the mistakes I'd made in my past, or I could drive on and figure them out myself.
That's what I did.
If I could master a stick shift, could a successful relationship be that far behind?
LA - land of perpetual sun and sunbathing, which also makes it Iand of the perpetual bikini wax.
After a week, I made an appointment with the city's waxer to the stars - Alicia.
She was known for her artful work, her lightning-quick hands and her indecipherable accent.
Excuse me?
I got mugged! She took everything I've got.
I tried. I feel like one of those hairless dogs.
You can't hide your light under a bush.
No, I am totally bald and freezing.
- I'm so aware of down there now.
I feel like I'm nothing but walking sex.
- Where are you going?
- Letterman Lew?
- Yeah, one's a feisty waitress.
- Tell him to move to Brazil.
- We'll go to that movie premiere.
Oh, no one sees the movie. We'll use my press pass and get into the after party.
Lew asked Miranda to meet him at The Flowing Tree.
Surrounded by all these tanned, fit, happy people, she knew she would recognize pale, chubby, unhappy Lew immediately.
Miranda realized, she was the one standing out.
She was the only angry New Yorker for miles.
Later that night, two very happy New Yorkers prepared to hike up their first LA red carpet.
- Carrie Bradshaw, New York Star.
- I'm a columnist.
That's me.
- No one goes to the movie.
OK, OK.
Let's just go.
- No one goes to the movie.
There I was, a Hollywood nobody, cast off the red carpet and standing in my proper place on a parking lot.
- I thought I had a problem.
I taped them to my body on the plane.
- Yeah.
Carrie Bradshaw, representing myself.
- No, no.
Writer.
That's too cheesy for you to be a writer.
- Samantha Jones, Keith.
He's representing Matt Damon.
Once we got inside, our magic carpet ride really began.
- A disconnect?
A disconnect!
You're gonna ride me with that.
Someone's ass is ringing, and it ain't mine.
That is one tall drink ofwater.
She had worshipped Hugh Hefner since she was old enough to steal her father's Playboys.
This wasn't a celebrity sighting.
This was the celebrity sighting.
I had been trying to get into Linc for a week.
He seemed smart and sexy, and this outsider liked being inside.
- Yeah, OK.
Sure.
- Yeah, I want to go to the VlP room.
- All right.
Back home, Charlotte had never felt more inside.
She had just attended her first black tie doctors' benefit.
Trey wasn't the only one with heart problems.
It was the fifth time he'd gone running at bedtime in the last two weeks.
The next day, Samantha decided to get some exercise as well.
Her pocketbook was getting most of the workout.
She decided to give her old pocketbook a rest.
As Charlotte picked up my mail, she realized she missed more than her sex life.
She missed her single life.
If Trey could run away from their problems, so could she.
- Calling might be more economical.
We missed you too.
- Trey is
- I take it you'll be staying?
You came to the right place.
I gotta meet this Keith guy.
Miranda and Samantha are down by the pool.
Charlotte glanced at the glistening pool, and just like that, her marriage and Trey seemed far away.
Before lunch, I agreed to go with Keith to see a house he was interested in.
This is not a house.
This is an airport.
There's a bargain! In New York, a first date is dinner and a movie.
In LA, it's lunch and seeing a 3.
4 million dollar house.
- I should work in television.
It's really good.
But does a single guy like you need this much space?
So did he.
In the South American's living room, my Brazilian made me kiss him.
- Okey-dokey.
- Who wouldn't? Keith wants a $3 million house and I can't afford new curtains.
We're New Yorkers.
Aren't we supposed to like neurotic guys?
One woman's pornographer is another woman's spiritual leader.
- How would you spend your time?
- No, you didn't!
- No.
- Give me that.
I don't have that luxury.
All my insides are on the outside now.
It's good.
Charlotte couldn't tell them her conjugal bliss was a conjugal miss.
That night, after hours of pool time, I realized something startling.
I was actually starting to like LA.
New Yorkers are trained to hate Los Angeles, where, supposedly, intellect is ridiculed and who you date and what you look like is revered.
Yet, we were having the time of our lives.
The men were happy, the homes were huge, the bags looked great.
Maybe that was enough.
The weather moves from west to east.
Was it a just matter of time before the truth blew across Manhattan? When it comes to bags, men and cities, is it really what's outside that counts? The next day, Samantha and l went to the Valley for Fendi bags.
- Is that an address or a zip code?
I miss Lorenzo Lamas' neighborhood.
- My God.
We had found it.
Fake Fendi paradise.
He should work on his display area.
I should have liked them.
But staring into the trunk, they didn't look elegant.
They looked cheap.
Even if everyone else thought it was real, I'd always know, my bag came from a trunk deep in the Valley.
You know what? I don't think so.
- Sorry.
They're very nice.
It's just
They looked so sad staring up at me from that trunk.
It's better to wait for the real thing.
Then at least you know it's special.
- It's not physical, it's emotional.
- She told me at the wedding.
Three days with Lew had changed Miranda from deeply sarcastic to Deepak Chopra.
She's never had sex.
- A honeymoon to South America.
- That might do the trick.
Did you say, "Hef"?
- Sorry, not going.
All right, fine, but I better be on the guest list.
Later that night, I was a guest at Keith's amazing house.
He made sizzling scallops, and after dinner things got even hotter.
I like hot tubs.
NewYork should have more hot tubs like on roofs and stuff.
While I was going native with Keith, Miranda and Lew went to New York.
At least to the New York strip steak.
Lew hadn't found inner peace, he'd found an eating disorder.
Miranda wanted to rip that Knicks hat off his head.
No self-respecting New Yorker would spit out that good a steak.
Waking up in Keith's sun-filled bedroom, I felt like 3.
4 million myself.
- That would be a whole lot of nothing.
- Don't you work?
- Nice life.
- You're a house-sitter?
- I thought you were an agent.
The life I was coveting wasn't Keith's, it was Carrie Fisher's.
And Penny Marshall's.
I'm going to
- Thank you.
And Ben Affleck's.
I'm not a prostitute.
I'm Carrie Bradshaw.
I'm a writer too.
I have a column in New York.
I'm Carrie, you're Carrie.
I write, you write.
It was the perfect ending to my week of make-believe - a visit to the Playboy mansion and the Playmate pool party.
- Nothing surprises me any more.
In LA, house-sitters are somebodies and writers are prostitutes.
- Thank you.
- Now we're angry again?
- I blame the wax.
After the sun went down, the party really started heating up.
Yeah, I want to see some Bunny ears.
Somewhere between the ltalian grotto and the petting zoo, Charlotte found something real.
His name was lan.
Charlotte had forgotten how awful single life could be.
Marriage, with all its problems, wasn't looking so bad.
Samantha was mortified.
She thought everything on the Bunny was fake.
Apparently, one nod from Hef, and the pool party was over.
The fake Fendi ended up costing 150 for the bag, unspecified costs to Samantha's ego.
And Miranda and I took a wrong turn on the way to the buffet.
It's time to go home.
- We are.
- What did she do?
What happened? OK.
All right.
The next day, four New Yorkers left LA a little lighter.
Some of us had lost our hair, and all of us had lost a little dignity.
Samantha couldn't wait to get back to the crime-free streets of Manhattan.
Miranda couldn't wait to get back to men who swallowed.
Charlotte couldn't wait to get back to Trey.
And as for me, I couldn't wait.
- Relax, we're going.
Six hours later, I was home.
It looked even better on the inside than I remembered it, because inside it was all real.
I was starting to feel like myself again.
The rest of me would grow back eventually.
If you live in NewYork for ten years, you can call yourself a New Yorker.
But the trained eye can always spot the ones who were born here.
After firing her last two publicists, Jenny Brier, the daughter of a restaurateur, had decided that Samantha would take over the PR for her upcoming party.
Just like that, the meeting was over.
After meeting her new client, Samantha met us for the latest trend in power lunching - haute cafeteria cuisine.
Coming in for a landing, sister?
- Definitely looking.
- Take your tray over there.
- Still looking.
- You have to do something.
- No, I mean he's really cute.
- Even cuter.
- Dear Mr. Cutie-Cute
- Just your phone number.
Relax, TMJ.
You don't have to.
- I'll do it for you.
Hi.
I'm sorry to bother you, but my friend Miranda over there
- She thinks you're cute.
On the way home, I decided to brave the afternoon heat to see if my shoe repair guy could do anything about my old soles.
But when I got there, there was no "there" there.
- What happened to Artie?
My guy, my shoe guy.
He fixed these the last time.
- Comics aren't selling, huh?
Power Lad, by Wade Adams.
Is this you? Did you drawthis?
What's so powerful about him?
- I'm a writer.
Turn to page seven of your newspaper.
- Aren't they a boy thing?
With the bracelets and the tiara.
I used to love that even her accessories had super-powers.
Oh, man.
What's wrong with them?
- All right, stop.
I'll buy some.
I never did get my shoes fixed.
But the next week, I got new boots.
I don't know what came over me, but I felt compelled to thank him.
Even as a superhero, I was powerless to resist.
That evening, inspired by Miranda's digital diagnosis, Charlotte went surfing for a cure for Trey's condition.
There it was, in both the on- and off-positions.
$8,000 worth of hydraulics that could turn Trey into the Bionic Man.
Ordinarily, this was something Charlotte would shy away from, but since her marriage was shy of wood That night, I met Wade Adams alias Power Lad at Bar Code, a Times Square bar that specialized in real drinks and virtual reality.
I can't believe this place, it's like ten bucks a game.
They want you to play half as well and twice as much.
Whatever happened to Frogger and Miss Pacman?
- No! To Pacman? Good for them.
Man, where have I been?
- For ten bucks? It's a bargain.
Without leaving the building, Power Lad took me to the furthest reaches of the galaxy and right back to seventh grade.
- Oh, God.
The implant's on/off-switch had Charlotte thinking about Trey's.
She was desperate to turn his on, but didn't know where to find it.
Five beers, four video games, 102 degrees outside later
- You gotta be kidding.
- It's too hot to scoot.
I'm not the kind of girl who scoots to a guy's terrace on the first date.
- Give me that scooter.
- No.
- Thank you.
I'm scooting in heels.
You said you had a view, not the view.
And this breeze - it's like there's different air up here.
- How do you have all this? -
How was it possible that mild-mannered Power Lad had a classic six on the Upper East Side with a view of the park? Was he Power Lad by day and a millionaire playboy by night?
You scared me.
Yea
- It's their apartment.
The next day at Commune, daddy Brier's latest restaurant, I asked Samantha about my prospects with Power Lad.
He put his money in the comic book store.
- He's saving up for his own place.
You know howtough the market is.
Plus he's fun and funny.
There's no way you'd go out with a guy who lived with his family?
No.
Hey, no.
No, they don't look so bad.
- I'm sticking to my story.
- You get the nicest compliments.
- How old are they?
- They sound
- They're dressed
Were Jenny Brier and her friends dressed like 30-something-year-olds, or were we trying to look like teenagers? One was sending Dom Perignon, another was touring on a scooter.
When you're a teenager, all you want to do is buy beer.
Once you hit 30, all you want to do is get carded.
I wondered, in today's youth obsessed culture, are the women of my generation growing into responsible adults, or are we 34 going on 13? After a week of self-imposed seclusion, Miranda felt strong enough for solid food and table service with Lance Bloom, a senior editor at Knopf.
He didn't want your hardware getting too close to his software.
Think of it as mouth jewelry.
Your tooth bracelet.
You are.
If the guy's worth dating he won't care about your braces.
In the After-School Special, you'd see him across the cafeteria.
He'd smile, and he'd have braces too.
Are you kidding me? Don't you think that's childish?
Yes please, Mrs. Adams.
Yes please, Mrs Adams.
On closer inspection, living with the parents wasn't so bad.
It was like having servants you didn't have to pay.
Faced with having hydraulic cylinders placed in his shaft, Trey decided to pursue the less physically demanding option of counseling with a therapist he'd found through his college alumni.
That night, Wade and l had our first sleep-over, at my place.
I finally figured out what made Power Lad so powerful.
He had the soul of a teenage boy in the body of a very grown-up man.
The machine will get it.
Hi.
Leave a message.
- What? Hi, Mrs.
Adams.
How are you? Several blocks south, Charlotte's night was interrupted too - by odd noises coming from her bathroom.
Charlotte felt terrible.
She hadn't meant to make Trey cry.
Charlotte had no idea.
She wished they were 13, before sex had made everything so complicated.
When holding hands and a kiss would have been all she needed.
The 13-year-old girl inside Miranda wanted to disappear, but the 34-year-old partner in this firm decided she wasn't going anywhere.
Miranda decided that TMJ was less painful than a second adolescence.
The next day, she had her braces removed and resumed her life as a 34-year-old tongue-thruster.
Trey resumed his own brand of thrusting and discovered that tension release could be a turn-on.
Charlotte discovered a way to include herself in Trey's sex life.
And she figured out what to do with those proofs not suitable for framing.
The following weekend at the Brier Bar Mitzvah party I'm not sure if I have your name.
I can't believe you still have actual albums.
Oh my God, Styx.
I love Styx.
- I had this album.
- How do you have this?
This song is me driving my parents' Oldsmobile without them knowing.
- Roller skates?
It was obvious Wade was in no hurry to save up for his own apartment.
- And what is that?
- I'm sorry, Camp Takatoka? I hadn't smoked pot out of a bong since my eighth-grade boyfriend made one out of tin foil, a BlC pen, and a bottle of Pepsi Light.
I didn't even know if I'd remember how.
Turns out it was like riding a bike a ten speed.
Back at the Bar Mitzvah bash, Samantha heard some girl-talk not suitable for little ladies.
Samantha had resented Jenny Brier because of everything she had.
But then she realized, she'd had something that no amount of money could buy - a childhood.
Suddenly, the Dairy Queen wasn't looking so bad.
I'm thirsty.
Bong water! Hold this.
Attack of the spicy chicken wings.
Oh, shit.
- It's OK.
- Wait.
If they see billions of chicken wings, they're gonna know we've been smoking pot.
- No, ma'am.
I couldn't believe it.
Power Lad would never have ratted me out.
There comes a time when you have to take responsibility for yourself.
A time when l, like Jenny Brier, had to stand up and say to the world, "Today, I am a woman.
" Yes, Mrs.
Adams, I brought the marijuana into the house.
And I'm taking it with me when I go.
In the end, I decided I was definitely 34 going on 35, but in a city like New York with its pace and pressures, sometimes it's important to have a 13-year-old moment, to remember a simpler time when the best thing in life was hanging out, Iistening to records, and having fun with friends - in your own apartment.
On a city where cynicism is as prevalent as pashmina, there is nothing more hopeful than getting ready for the first date.
Will O'Connor was a cute urban planner Miranda had met at Starbucks.
He mistook her latte for his double-caff and offered to make it up to her by buying her a drink that Saturday.
Samantha preferred the saying good night to the first date routine.
His name was Sebastian Wise.
For Sam, it was a very good night.
Meanwhile, Trey and Charlotte were practicing their new routine.
After a week of the same routine, the only thing getting up in their bed was Charlotte's libido.
As for me, my routine had become very routine.
I was spending almost every night working.
- Maybe he got lost.
Doesn't look good.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, that's illegal dumping.
I can't believe guys still stand girls up.
I can't, I have to work.
I agreed to teach these stupid Learning Annex classes.
They're calling it "Bright Lights Date City".
- They're paying 300 bucks a pop.
It's a seminar on where to meet men.
Apparently, I'm an expert.
- Who would pay for this?
- I'm sorry, sweetie.
Bye.
Stood up at 27, Miranda had done nothing.
At 34, she decided she wasn't going to take this stand-up lying down.
Will gave her the cold shoulder and his home number.
- It explains why they don't call back.
- This is why I don't work out.
- And she never will.
- Fancy.
Charlotte, is everything OK?
- Is this dirty mad libs?
- That's why I got your voicemail.
- Yes, you can.
You're sexy.
He should see you.
You're something to see.
I soon realized how many desperate New York women there were.
I'm flattered that so many of you showed up to hear me talk.
The fact is, I have had a lot of experience with men.
Some of it good, some of it bad, some of it very ugly.
There are two million single men in this city.
I have dated about a million of them.
All these men are right outside your door.
Next time you step out with your shoes and traveling cappuccino, take a look around.
Our metropolis is stacked with men.
You never knowwho you'll run into.
You can turn a corner, and boom - bright lights, date city.
Do you mean places to meet men? Sure.
Let's see.
Samba.
Any sporting Sports bars - Mickey Mantle's.
Really? Let's see.
I once met this fellow on the Hampton Jitney.
It turned out he couldn't drive, and he was on a parole program.
That's a bad example.
Suddenly, I felt like the bad example.
Yes, you.
- No.
Yes, you there.
- No, not that I'm aware of.
Yes, you in the back.
I'm really not an expert on men.
I just write about this stuff.
The only thing I learned that night was that I should have stayed home.
- Can I smoke in here?
If you stay single long enough, you should get wiser about dating.
Which men, where to meet them But what made us experts? Wasn't our single status a neon sign that we couldn't get it right? What if all these years in New York have only made us older, more confused or dead? Are we getting wiser or just older? If they'd been holding tomatoes not Louis Vuitton bags, I'd be dead.
- Do you know there are no free men? .
- They were so hostile.
What do I know about men.
All I have is a bunch of failed relationships.
- Thanks.
As if being dead-person adjacent isn't bad enough.
I'm supposed to teach another class.
What am I going to do?
Don't expect a goodie bag.
Oh, my God, open casket.
I've never seen a dead body before.
- Let's get out of here.
He's cute.
This would have helped me.
A place to meet men - an after wake party.
- It's nice.
- "I'm dead.
Enjoy the buffet.
- And attractive friends.
- This place is full of men.
They know any minute they're out of here.
Oh, my God.
Jim.
- Your hair.
- On the railroad?
- What happened to the band?
Miranda, sorry, this is Jim.
- We dated a grillion years ago.
- You were friends with Will?
- You were the classic frenemies.
- I'm a writer.
- No.
- He's kind of an asshole.
- Yes, indeedy.
That's what I thought when I dated him.
When it wasn't working, and I broke up with him, "Hello, asshole.
" Snide comments, rumor spreading, the works.
- Outgoing.
Will's death had turned Miranda into my target audience - a desperate woman.
Downtown, Samantha was getting wise, Sebastian Wise, again.
- Does he go to Mickey Mantle's?
Simmer down, mommy hasn't had her caffeine yet.
Frittata.
- Not getting involved.
- We knewthis was coming.
- Way out.
New Jersey out.
- Jim, Old Boyfriend Jim?
Miranda, no.
He needs to be voted off the island.
- Haven't you learned anything?
Fine, go.
A-hole
Later that week, Charlotte decided for Trey to see the sexual part of her, she'd have to dress the part.
That's a bottom.
If you're going to go the lingerie route, why not go a little more upscale and less flammable?
- That equals a healthy relationship.
Read my lips.
Then you have to pair that with a cardigan.
I knowyou do.
I'm just not sure I need to.
This is much more a Samantha job.
You shouldn't be so hard on her.
She doesn't mean to be hurtful.
There were two of you ruining my breakfast.
It was my second lecture that week that was a failure.
Across town, Samantha decided the wise thing to do was to take a break from all of us and go shopping.
The next morning, Miranda called with the post mortem on her date with Jim.
- Hello?
I thought it was the Learning Annex bugging me about my class.
- 12th of Never Gonna Happen.
People asked for refunds after my first class.
- More than I do.
I feel like a total sham.
- Don't make me say, "l told you so.
- Are we talking about Asshole Jim?
- Not till you break up with him.
- He does?
- Go, God's speed.
What do you know about this guy? You've been on one date.
Charlotte decided this would be a good time to spend with old friends, the sisters of Kappa Kappa Gamma.
They would understand her.
After all, they were married too.
It would have been wiser to have a cappuccino instead of a third drink.
The only heads blowing off were those of Kappa Kappa Grandma.
Charlotte realized how much they'd all changed since college. Her friends had become frenemies.
And to them, she had become Samantha.
Samantha couldn't believe how much fun she was having.
She had found a woman who was as open about her sexuality as her.
Samantha learned she had a little Charlotte in her.
She had a line that could be crossed.
Hers was just more to the left.
The next night, I agreed to meet Jim and Miranda for drinks.
- I didn't knowthat.
- Thank you.
Maybe I'd been wrong.
Jim seemed kind, funny, attentive.
- It creeps in.
And still an asshole.
- Good to see you.
- No.
- That's because you're an asshole.
- Thank you.
Jim hadn't gotten older or wiser.
Once dumped, he'd still dumped on everyone.
- I told you so.
- I told you so.
Is it bad that it makes me feel good to say that?
Your date died.
You panicked.
There are plenty of other assholes out there.
I know. And I'm an expert.
Meanwhile, uptown, the Samantha in Charlotte was ready to come out.
That night, Trey successfully screwed his wife for a full minute and a half before the wind died.
After Charlotte's night of love, she called the one person she knew who would appreciate it the most.
Having spent time with their frenemies, they forgot they were enemies and went back to being friends.
I realized I had become my own worst frenemy.
I had let 300 desperate women and one asshole convince me that I didn't know anything.
I did.
I was older and wiser.
I decided to keep my second date with the Learning Annex.
Unfortunately, my reputation had preceded me.
Is this it? I'm Carrie Bradshaw.
You've paid good money to find out how to meet men.
I don't know a lot about it, but you're not going to meet them in a Learning Annex class.
So, grab your bags.
Come on, we're not getting any younger.
That's right.
Just trying to give you your money's worth.
I took them to a bar, took my $300 and bought them drinks.
Anne, the guy over there is checking you out.
Twelve o'clock.
Not everybody, just Anne.
- Go and ask him for a light.
Go.
Oh, yeah.
See? OK, one down, five to go.
Excuse me? Hi, have you met Liz? She works in TV.
- Something in common.
That night, I made three matches.
I didn't look for myself.
I try not to date while at work.
The old and wise adage is true - those who can't do, teach.
Those who can't teach, do.
Here's a live one.
Go, get him, tiger.
Go.
Run like the wind.
Two months into her marriage, Charlotte's life seemed to be a bed of roses.
That's what it looked like to an onlooker.
Charlotte had no interest in hearing any more about the family history.
Her history with Trey was depressing enough.
After a few half-baked attempts at a sex life, Trey seemed to give up.
The only place he even tried to score was on the tennis court.
- Manure?
You read Harlequin Romances in school, haunts you forever.
Oh, my God, did you see the way she looked at me?
- Contempt, like I was Pol Pot.
- She wishes I was.
Big's wife.
That was awful.
I can't believe that there is a person in New York who could hate me that much.
Oh, God.
I was so devastated by Natasha's withering look that I decided my only recourse was to go shopping.
I took a wrong turn looking for the right shoes, and south of Houston Street I literally lost my direction.
Excuse me, I knowthis sounds ridiculous.
Can you tell me which way is West Broadway?
- What?
- It's a baguette.
I couldn't believe it.
and when the city was getting safe, I got mugged.
- Is this for real?
Jesus.
- This won't
- What? - No.
They weren't just after money.
They were after fashion.
Please, sir, they're my favorite pair.
I got them half price at a sample sale.
Somebody stop him, he took my strappy sandals.
Somebody Gross! I've been robbed! I've been robbed.
He said, "Give me your Blahniks", which I thought was a joke.
Then I'm barefoot on a sidewalk in the middle of summer.
My dignity.
- I'm fine.
Thanks for coming.
- I know.
- Probably got trichinosis.
I'm sure I stepped on a piece of it somewhere.
Detective Stevens, this is my friend, my lawyer, Miranda Hobbes.
I can't wear these.
I don't understand.
I get mugged, and you get him? I guess that's my karma.
What are you talking about? The man was smitten with you.
Samantha discovered that her number had been passed around as well.
Miranda had a date with my detective
- Breathe.
Shut your eyes, and go with your first instinct.
What are you so worked up about?
Wait.
Maybe this is karma.
- You're getting what you deserve.
If you're lucky, a boner as well.
- Now go and have fun.
Tell Detective Stevens, if he sees a woman wearing pink suede Blahnik sandals, bring her in for questioning.
While I ascribed thoughts of karma to fortune cookie psychology, I wondered, does a string of bad dates equal one good one? And will treating someone badly in one relationship ensure that you'll be treated badly in the next? Does everything that goes around come around? If so, will it come around to bite you in the ass? Is there such a thing as relationship karma? Later, I accompanied Samantha to a party thrown by Sam Jones.
I can't believe we're going to the party of a total stranger.
I keep waiting for someone to jump out and steal my bra.
- How can you tell over the phone?
What was the cosmic purpose of my getting snubbed by Natasha?
I'd have to hear it first.
Oh, my God.
Who told you that?
- You waited 15 blocks to tell me that?.
I can't believe I'm responsible for breaking up their marriage.
- I don't think I could feel any worse.
- Look at that, I feel worse.
Yes.
Samantha wondered what message the universe was sending her, but Miranda had no doubt.
She felt like she had just hit the cosmic jackpot.
Please don't tell anyone we were here.
- Some of them were young enough
Cab! Natasha fell down the stairs, now I fall down the stairs.
This is an open and shut case of karmic retribution.
- This was not an accident.
Yesterday, I get mugged, now I can't even get a taxi - and I can always get a taxi.
My karma is shot.
- I only know about my own karma.
That's not karma, that's statutory rape.
Here, here.
Come on.
What's up? Across town, Charlotte was getting a message of her own.
Later that week, my knee still hurting from my trip down the stairs, I decided to take matters into my own hands.
- I'd like to speak to Natasha, please.
- It's Carrie Bradshaw calling.
- It's personal.
I didn't know howto tell an assistant it was of cosmic significance.
- I'll hold.
OK then, I'll hold forever.
This wasn't gonna be easy.
I had tough karma to overcome.
The next week, Charlotte flirted with her own karma.
Charlotte's karma flirted back in a most unexpected way.
Samantha was working out some karmic issues of her own.
Later, the MacDougals were enjoying their cocktail hour, which generally lasted from 5:00pm to last man standing.
Samantha found that the universe had sent her many messages.
Across town, Miranda met her karmic treasure for dinner.
Miranda realized that every woman was staring at her date.
She knewwhat they were thinking - why is that attractive man with her?
She drank to feel better about herself.
Six vodka martinis later, she was feeling pretty damn good.
When Trey didn't come to bed, Charlotte went looking for him.
As Charlotte looked at her perfect husband at their family's perfect country house, she realized the one thing that was missing was that perfect connection with an imperfect person.
Seven unreturned phone calls, and still no response from Natasha.
Buddhists believe you pay for what you do wrong in this life in the next.
I knewwhat I'd done.
I just didn't think I could wait a lifetime to be forgiven.
The next morning, Miranda woke up with the worst hangover of her life.
On her hall table, she discovered that Detective Stevens had left a number for her local AA chapter.
Samantha got her karmic retribution.
In screwing Sam Jones, she wound up screwing herself.
A few days later, Charlotte came home to her old apartment.
It was good fortune that she had only sublet it, not to mention good sense.
Not wanting to come back in my next life as a dung beetle, I asked Samantha's assistant to pump Natasha's assistant to find out where she was having lunch.
I need to talk to you.
- I'm only gonna stay a minute.
I tried to call you at work, but Anyway, it's not important.
Can I have a sip of this? Thanks.
I heard about your marriage.
It's just so terrible.
I never meant for any of this to happen.
If there was something I could do to take it away, I would.
But I can't.
I came here today because I needed to say how sorry I am.
I am deeply sorry for what I did to you.
It was wrong.
I'm sorry.
Yes. Thank you for listening.
You are?
I was just leaving.
My actions had set into motion a karmic chain of events that put Natasha back on the singles market.
As if single women didn't have it hard enough.
Somewhere out there, Big was alone again.
The universe may not always play fair, but at least it's got a hell of a sense of humor.
What? In life, there are all sorts of wake-up calls.
But crowing on East 73rd Street was one I was not prepared for.
It was my own fault.
I'd let my frenzy for a rent-controlled apartment near Barneys, override the fact that it was animal-hospital adjacent.
That's the thing about New York - you never know what's around the corner.
Or, in Samantha's case, just outside your window.
There they were - Samantha's neighborhood transsexual hookers.
Half man, half woman, totally annoying.
Let's hope so!
- It's the other white meat.
I thought my chickens were bad.
It was our first Saturday morning breakfast since Charlotte had left Trey, her husband of three months.
Sweetie, you're not single you're just separated.
Thanks.
Sweetie, Trey has an impotence problem
I'll bring the food.
How about roof-chicken? Can I help you? I live around the corner and my window Iooks over the roof with the chickens and the crowing
- Excuse me?
Yes, they do.
And very loudly.
- My God.
You don't have to do that.
They had all that fight-trauma.
They need fresh air.
I don't want them to be miserable.
That's all right.
I'll get over it.
Thank you for being so nice.
Just gonna take one of these for my friend.
She has a cat.
" That's a tad bitchy for a take-out lady.
Never say Cathy Comic to me again.
Order from someplace else.
Then bear the take-out food shame.
There they were.
Our ex-boyfriends.
What are they doing together? Are they friends now?
What do you think they are talking about? Their dogs?
We can't run.
These shoe-straps will break.
- How do I look?
You look great too.
Another thing about New York - who knows who is around the corner?
Look who it is, Pete.
My God! Look how big he got.
Two beers at a time.
Did we give you guys a drinking problem? They are not just for us.
- We have to go.
It was good to see you, Aidan.
Come on, this way.
That night at Charlotte's - light unpacking and heavy realisations.
Well, they're over us.
It's just so hilarious.
We thought they were pining and they have new girlfriends already!
- The point is not if they were cute.
The point is, they were there.
- Very cute.
I do try to figure out what went wrong.
But I don't think that I obsess.
Big? Big was tricky.
I still don't know what happened.
I didn't obsess about Aidan.
Aidan was clear.
He moved on.
Maybe we only obsess over relationships that feel unfinished.
Later that night I got to thinking about men, women and relationships.
Or more to the point, how women feel men disappoint them in relationships.
Then a radical, earth-shattering thought popped into my head.
What if everything isn't the man's fault? After a certain age and a certain number of relationships, if it still isn't working and the ex's seem to be moving on and we don't, perhaps the problem isn't the last boyfriend, or the one before him or even the one before him.
Could it be that the problem isn't them, but horror of horrors, is it us? Downtown, the "Up-my-ass Players" were in the middle of their late night repertory.
"Much Ado About Up My Ass" and "Long Day's Journey Up My Ass".
Samantha decided if she was gonna get a good night's sleep, she'd have to test how effective a PR professional she was.
Samantha knew how to get her way with men, even if they were half women.
What?
- Who is this?
I didn't recognize your voice.
You sounded different.
No, I was up late working.
And there are these chickens that crow on the roof next door.
The "Fun On The Farm" fact everyone's aware of but me.
- In what way?
- A red bedroom?
- I heard.
I think it was on the news.
- Where?
- I'm nodding.
- Bye.
Later that day, I met Miranda at my favorite thrift store, to dig for buried treasure.
Do you think I can get away with a "Hang in there, baby" halter top?
I can't.
I have to work.
I lied.
I don't have to work.
I'm meeting Big for lunch and I didn't think you'd approve.
- He called.
- He sounded upset and needs to talk.
What does that mean? He's upset about Natasha leaving
I'm not asking you to hold anything.
We're just having lunch.
It's not a huge mistake, it's lunch.
I am not going back for more and I can't even believe I can't believe you would say that to me.
- I am not starting up with Big again.
Are you gonna cut me out of your life like you did to Steve?
The first sign of any little weakness and you just write people off.
My God, Miranda.
You are so judgmental.
You can say I'm pathetic and needy and I can't say anything to you? Everybody is not as tough as you, Miranda.
People Some of us make mistakes.
That's just perfect.
Walk away.
It's all my fault.
Right there, next to the two for $5 bin, Miranda and I had our first big fight.
I thought by the time I got home, she'd have left an apology.
I was gonna call her, but wasn't quite sure what to say.
Or whose fault it really was.
And at the exact same moment across town, Miranda was preparing to make the call she'd been dreading all day.
After she hung up, Miranda couldn't get the giggle out of her head.
She decided to walk the two blocks to confront the woman with the judgmental giggle who thought she was better than her.
Miranda realized the giggle wasn't about her.
It wasn't about anything.
It wasn't the noodles that kept her coming back to this restaurant.
It was the fact that this was their place and it was filled with happy memories.
The idea that she'd miss a night's sleep pissed Samantha off.
The idea that she'd miss an orgasm, was more than she could bear.
There was nothing anyone could do to stop her.
Samantha was obsessed.
She had a date with Destiny, Chyna and Jo, no "e".
And Uptown, Charlotte was a bit freaked out as well.
Unable to sleep and unable to unpack, she was with the only man she could tolerate
- The Dalai Lama.
Once Charlotte swore off men, this man couldn't get enough of her.
He wasn't a rooster and it wasn't the Bronx but from deep inside, Trey's cock began to crow.
Across town, I was still wide awake.
I couldn't get my fight with Miranda out of my head.
I was not only capable of obsessing about relationships with men, I was capable of obsessing about relationships with women.
This is your neighbor who complained about the chickens.
I can't take it any more.
Move them in.
Thanks.
I figured if they had a lovely life, I was entitled to the same thing.
He may have gone away, the pre-op transsexual, but he came back, loaded with eggs.
Samantha knew this was one relationship with a man she couldn't walk away from.
Because this man was half woman.
- Good, you're there.
Do you really think I'm pathetic?
I'm outside the restaurant, hiding in some bushes.
Do you still not think I'm pathetic? '
l know you think it's a huge mistake.
It's just something I feel I need to do to move on.
But if I'm wrong and it is a mistake, I need to know you'll be there for me.
I'm going in.
Any last minute advice?
- I'm nodding.
Hello, you.
My hair is in a duck pond.
My Dior purse.
Oh, my God! What is that?
- I no longer smell of pond.
Exactly how many terry-cloth robes do you have?
- Oh, three or four.
I swore I would never be in this room with you again.
That is one red wall.
- No.
It wasn't all your fault.
I have no idea.
- Pretty good.
How are you doing?
Really, we're like war buddies.
War buddies in Calvin Klein robes.
Why doesn't that surprise me?
- I should go.
I can't.
Because, sweet friend, you and I are like that red wall.
It's a good idea in theory.
But somehow, it doesn't quite work.
And just like that, I realized Big and I weren't "us" any more.
We had become something else.
What it was, I had no idea.
I had no idea where the chickens had gone, but I hoped it wasn't the Bronx.
And I hoped they were happy.
The next Saturday, Samantha decided to throw a kiss and make up party for the "Up-my-ass Players".
- A bit.
"Flirtinis."
Vodka, pineapple and champagne.
Flirtinis.
Watch your language.
There are ladies present.
- Are you talking to me?
- What do you want?
I need to see you spin first, sister.
- Is that good enough?
Don't worry, they have a very lovely life.
If you're single there's one thing you should always have when you go out on a Saturday night.
Your friends.
Why are we walking so fast?
Let me see that again.
"Two souls, one thought.
" That is sappy.
That is totally not like Danny.
If two people have only one thought between them something is very wrong.
Cab.
- Yeah, that one weekend that I was bored.
Just one?
This is quite a spread.
There he was, the fiancé du jour.
Maybe you should've showed him both boobs.
And across the room from the two-soul couple
a man with no soul.
Charlotte realized that she and Trey were two souls with too many thoughts.
I'm not dating anyone.
Hey, what the hell was going on in there? Felt like your comedy routine should have a two-drink minimum.
- And I thought it was a cocktail party.
Miranda, we're the only single people anywhere.
- Nope, didn't see them.
- Okay, Shecky.
You know what? Sometimes I think people in couples wish they had our lives.
- And you're sure you're not overreacting?
That night, neither Charlotte nor Trey came inside.
Trey may have had a lot of flaws, but bad manners wasn't one of them.
It was a lovely, uneventful Saturday morning.
Three lattes, two newspapers, and one dating-service application.
- I'm single, I don't deserve one.
I thought those 57 menus I get every day from Hunan Moonan were annoying.
" It's almost a threat.
It's like, "We have him.
He's just waiting for you.
"But hurry, 'cause he's slipping away.
There he goes.
I believe there's that one perfect person out there to complete you.
All right, first of all, the idea that there's only one out there why don't I just shoot myself right now? I'd like to think people have more than one soul mate.
And if you miss one, along comes another, like cabs.
- Okay.
- Actually, today she's too much.
Really true.
Here you go.
- No.
Soul mate.
Two little words, one big concept.
A belief that someone, somewhere is holding the key to your heart, and your dream house.
All you have to do is find them.
So where is this person? And if you loved someone and it didn't work out does that mean they weren't your soul mate? Were they just a runner-up contestant in this game show called "Happily Ever After"? And as you move from age box to age box and the contestants get fewer and fewer are your chances of finding your soul mate less and less? Soul mates, reality or torture device?
I'm not sure I want to do anything.
I'm kind of into laying low.
- No, I'm fine.
- Okay, calm down, Auntie Mame.
All right.
That sounds fun, thank you.
What, are you slowly trying to kill me on the way to lunch?
You know, a phone call here and there.
It's friendly.
- Do you think I should I invite him?
Maybe not.
And I think he's still in London.
All right.
- He is a priest.
Okay, sister, let's go.
I'm not gonna lose my table at Pastis - so you can cruise a holy man.
- What street are we on, again? That Sunday, Samantha went to church.
And just like that, Samantha went from Mr.
No Soul to Mr.
All Souls.
After church, most people go out for pancakes.
Samantha wasn't most people.
- All right, then.
I think we might have to get her a crash helmet.
- No.
She wants him, but she can't have him.
It's all very Thorn Birds.
Jinx! You owe me a coke.
Clooney's like a Chanel suit.
He'll always be in style.
L.
L.
Bean?
I think you're still in England but it's midnight here in New York, and it's my birthday.
I am officially old.
So I felt the need to call someone older.
Anyway, some friends are giving me a dinner tomorrow night.
Actually it's tonight, and you're a friend.
So if you are back in town it's going to be at II Cantinori, at 8:30 p.
m.
And if you're still in London then cheerio, old chap.
So, okay.
The next day, on Wall Street
But Miranda wasn't feeling very Shecky.
There it was.
The truth.
No Hallmark hope, no two-drink minimum.
Miranda realized it's not just about being single.
Everyone has a sore spot that needs a little comedy routine.
And so Miranda laughed.
Not because it was particularly funny but because it was kind.
Samantha wondered if maybe the hot monk was her soul mate as he was certainly unattainable.
I arrived at my party after a day of shopping.
With no true soul mate I spent the afternoon with my shoe soul mate Manolo Blahnik.
- Yes, Bradshaw, party of 10.
It's 8:45 p.m.
The reservation was for 8:30 p.m.
, right?
- Thank you.
- Hi.
I'll have a Shirley Temple, please.
Once everyone else gets here, we'll be drinking a lot of champagne.
Twenty minutes later, still no party.
Hi.
Still alone.
Did anyone call asking for Bradshaw?
Okay, thanks.
Not yet.
Hi.
Sorry for holding the table.
I can't imagine where everybody is.
There is only one II Cantinori, right?
- Okay.
Okay.
I'll just get my purse.
After I paid $70 for my own birthday cake I was totally out of the party mood.
So I decided to go home and kill myself.
- I'm sorry!
I'm sorry! Sorry!
I'm sorry! God!
By the time I got home I had fallen into an emotional hole so deep only a fireman without a collarbone could rescue me.
I just aged 35 more years.
What are you doing here?
No.
I'm going to bed.
I'm not in the mood to be with a bunch of people.
I'm aware of that.
The longer I sat there, the more alone I felt.
And it really hit me.
I am 35 and alone.
I know I have you guys, but And really, I hate myself a little for saying this, but it felt really sad not to have a man in my life who cares about me.
No special guy to wish me happy birthday.
No goddamn soul mate.
And I don't even know if I believe in soul mates.
I'm 35.
35 is not 25.
I'm 35.
- It's after 12:00, you're late.
London is five hours ahead.
I can't believe you actually got out of the car and got balloons.
- How old are you?
- You don't have to give me an exact number.
Pick a box. 30-35, 35-40, 40-45?
Really?
How do you feel about soul mates?
I had a fabulous day.
As Big's car drove away, I realized having three soul mates already nailed down made it a lot easier to spot those great, nice guys to have fun with.
A little past 10:00pm, I was dressed to the nines at Brasserie 8-1/2.
Located on the corner of "Right Now" and "Everyone Was There" it was the place to see and be seen.
- A model what? A model citizen, a model home - a model airplane?
- He's so versatile.
- Why don't you go over and say hello?
My love, there's no need for you to enter Hookerville.
Then you can't see what I see.
Lynne Cameron was a much sought after fashion-show producer as valuable to a show's success as Valium or Velcro.
- I did?
In that case, this is my boyfriend, Stanford.
Lynne, I'm a writer.
I'll call you next week.
Bye.
To what? I'm not a model.
They have beef pot pie on the menu, what do you think?
Lady, you have never looked better.
Your body is amazing.
- That we know of.
No problem, you're my hero.
I think it's fantastic that you can just put it out there.
I can't even say yes to being in some charity fashion show.
- Yeah.
No, it's a mix of real people and models.
I know the producer.
I do not live for fashion.
- Eight, what's your point?
- I do not belong on a runway.
Runways are for models, not writers.
- Do I strut? Am I a strutter?
I just I cannot imagine walking down a runway while people sit there and judge me.
- We judge models all the time.
Exactly.
I don't want people to think that I can't see the difference between a model and me.
- I thought of that!
What do you think, mutey?
While Miranda would never dream of walking on a runway she had no problem running on one.
So, what's the problem? He said, "I think you're very sexy.
Nice.
- Okay, I'm hanging up now.
You win men over with your personality?
Okay, I'm hanging up now.
Later that night, I got to thinking about Narcissus.
A man so consumed with his own image, he drowned in it.
Did he have no best friends to mirror back a healthier view of himself? And why is it that we can see our friends perfectly but when it comes to ourselves, no matter how hard we look do we ever see ourselves clearly? Samantha, on the other hand, saw herself a little too clearly.
- She's amazing, why?
- What's happening?
- What's happening with your vagina?
Sweetie, I'm not bugged, it's just us listening.
- What are the symptoms?
Do you know anyone that Stanford could go out with? If we don't find someone, he's gonna start dating hookers.
Exactly.
Charlotte would you say that I'm strutting right now? Charlotte decided for Stanford Blatch, it would have to be someone cute.
Someone with style, someone like Anthony, her wedding-gown stylist.
And speaking of hot, Miranda ended her first date with Captain Crunch.
Maybe he was right.
After all, who was Miranda to argue with the Captain? - Hello?
Lynne.
I really don't think that I should do this show.
I mean, come on, I am not a model.
Dolce & Gabbana?
Dolce & Gabbana picked me?
Do you think that I would be able to keep the outfit?
I'm coming.
I know, I'm too short.
But I'm very comfortable in heels.
Honestly, the higher the better.
So feel free to put me up in the big gal shoes.
Heidi Klum?
Trot?
Model, God, no.
- I'm a writer.
I'm - Sure, I love - I'm sorry.
- No, I'm sorry.
I just I know your photographs.
Sorry, I wasn't ready.
So go ahead.
I like the element of surprise.
- Me love or him love?
I don't know, whatever you think.
That was bad.
I'm sorry, I'm very uncomfortable having my photograph taken.
I'm in it for the free goods.
I've - never been a gal to turn down a free lesson.
We likie!
And speaking of uncomfortable
Your vagina's depressed?
- It can't meet its deadline?
- Vulva-what-ya?
"Dear vagina "guess who I have a crush on?"
" - Sounds like a bestseller.
I guess we're still waiting.
But could I have a hot water and lemon? Thanks.
- How'd I get involved?
On their second date Miranda did most of the talking.
She was feeling confident and sexy.
She couldn't believe how comfortable this new Miranda felt.
Miranda had no idea what had changed.
Even though Samantha had done the photo just for her she still wanted to be seen a certain way by men.
And you took this one of Cindy Crawford.
It was '92.
I loved her beauty mark so much.
I used to pencil one on, you know, and then I'd move it around whenever I had a blemish.
So, you know, it'd be here, then here and sometimes here and here.
Here's another one.
- Man.
- Are you crazy?
I love this.
When I first moved to New York, and I was broke sometimes I would buy Vogue instead of dinner.
I just felt it fed me more.
Real.
Ick.
Forget reality and tell me about the models.
Who's a big bitch and who's a bigger bitch?
I just love 'em. They're just beautiful.
- It was only one kiss.
Stanny, I'm a model.
You look fabulous, have fabulous seats.
Everything's gonna be fabulous.
- I can't think about you now.
I'm a model.
I made them put me in these super high heels.
I'm gonna be so freaking tall.
Excuse me, hi, I'm Carrie Bradshaw.
What's her problem?
- Oh, my.
Look, this is the Polaroid of the dress.
Me likie.
That's a fashion thing.
Frank Rich, Lynne? Fran Lebowitz? What, Dolce & Gabbana couldn't get Ed Koch?
I'm such an idiot.
- Actually convinced myself I belonged here.
Can I go home?
I'm a non-model.
And just when I thought it couldn't get any worse
Okay.
I'm gonna need to speak to someone.
I can't wear jeweled underwear.
How can I make this clear? Me no likie.
Paul, can you do something?
Okay, but not that.
- No, please, really, I'm gonna faint.
I can't wear jeweled panties and strut out in front of Frank Rich.
I respect Frank Rich.
Frank Rich is a writer.
I have a certain look, you know? And I just really don't think that jeweled panties is it.
Ten minutes and ten hair extensions later
I don't have time to decipher the levels of queendom in your world right now. Would you please go get me another champagne?
That is big hair.
Okay, sure.
Hi, I know you're a genius, but here's the thing.
- I'm a writer.
- Okay.
- Nobody's listening to me.
- They keep telling me I'm fabulous.
Bring Samantha here.
She'll tell me the truth.
- Go.
Samantha? Tell me the truth.
I know people don't mean it when they say that, but I do.
- You'd tell me, right?
Look how tall I am.
The shoes were my idea.
- All right.
You're Heidi Klum.
- Really?
- You look fabulous.
Okay.
Bye-bye.
Stop fucking taking my picture.
I had a choice, I could slink off the runway and let my inner model die of shame or I could pick myself up, flaws and all, and finish.
And that's just what I did.
Because when real people fall down in life they get right back up and keep on walking.
Turns out, my little act of bravery inspired three other people to acts of bravery as well.
Miranda faced her fear of knowing the truth.
Samantha faced her fear of what real food would do to her perfect figure.
And Charlotte faced her fear of seeing herself.
And just like Narcissus before her Charlotte became so mesmerized by what she saw, that
And as for me I tucked my jeweled underwear and my inner model away where they belonged and went back to my life as a real person.
Someone once said that when one door shuts, a window opens.
Big and I had shut our door but our window was open and blowing a great breeze.
- Like with waistcoats.
- A man with a plan.
Smoke, please.
Now that Big and I weren't playing the dating game, we were free to just play and it had never been better.
Where is it?
Wow.
Impressive.
And the watch fob.
Meanwhile, 35 blocks north at Dr.
And Mrs.
Young's cocktail party another set of ex's were enjoying the view.
Now that Trey and Charlotte had opened the door of communication Trey wanted to get in everywhere.
Certain behavior will keep you from getting into a co-op.
And certain behavior is almost assured to get you kicked out of one.
While Charlotte walked through her door I reached mine and kept it firmly closed.
Okay then, Houdini.
- I think I got it from here.
What's with the There will be no
Nighty night.
- Lotus.
- Classy.
- Lotus.
Are these theoretical questions, or are you getting busy, missy?
- But I thought he couldn't
This is a very happy development.
- I'm going with "D," all of the above.
We'd like to know, too, since you'll be having sex there.
- Monkey Bar.
- Big.
The bar, not the bathroom.
- Yeah.
- Easy, prosecutor.
- Charlotte didn't have to.
We're undefinable.
- I am not sleeping with him.
We're just hanging out.
It's fun, in fact now that the pressure's off, we're finally enjoying each other.
It's good.
We might actually have fun.
Can we lighten up on the boundary talk? I'm fine.
- No.
I was swallowing.
The Eskimo have hundreds of words for "snow.
" And we've invented three times that many words for "relationship.
" But the more words we invent, the harder it becomes to define things.
In a world where you can date without sex screw without dating and in the end keep most of your sex partners as friends long after the screwing is over what really defines a relationship? That night, Miranda let her boundaries down with Doug a cartoonist for The New Yorker.
They had been dating for about a month.
Miranda didn't know what they were, but she knew it felt good.
It was a morning of firsts.
It was the first time Doug had spent the night and the first time a man had peed in front of her.
That night, we went to Charlotte's gallery for the opening of an exhibit by Maria Diega Reyes, the Brazilian artist.
This is perfect.
Ms.
Boundaries has found Mr.
No Boundaries.
The next night, my ex introduced me to a tiny jazz club in the East Village.
"Cats"?
Okay, baby.
There I was, inches away from my ex-boyfriend friend, whatever lusting after a bass player.
- Yeah.
Apparently, everyone in the universe wanted me to define my relationship with Big.
- I like it, baby.
No.
- You were great.
No.
Hi, I'm Carrie Bradshaw.
Jazz neophyte.
- Sorry, this is
- You're running low.
- So you own this place?
Jeez, I gotta go.
- I am.
- That'd be great.
So then we'll take a cab.
Okay.
You sure your bass is gonna be okay?
Yeah.
Sure, let me just I'm a writer with no pen.
- Thank you.
- I know.
This is me.
Thank you.
Nice to meet you.
Bye.
What are you doing?
You know what I mean.
Now he's gonna think we're together.
- That's not the point.
- His breath was fine.
All right.
We gotta figure out what we're doing here.
- What are we?
What kind of friends?
There will be no
All right.
That's it, I'm going upstairs.
- I have to go to sleep.
But I couldn't sleep.
My bizarre ménage-à-taxi was haunting me.
Hello?
That's good.
Can you hang on a second?
Okay.
- Hello?
I can't talk right now.
- I am.
Look, I gotta go.
- I'm hanging up.
Sorry.
Okay, I'd like that.
He's not so bad.
- Okay.
- What do you want?
He knows when to say good-bye.
The next morning, Miranda decided I might have been right.
Maybe she was Ms.
Boundaries.
If she wanted a decent relationship she couldn't throw the boy out with the toilet water.
She would have to let down her boundaries.
And there was no better time than the present.
While Miranda tried to do her business Samantha helped Maria with hers.
The next day, I found the perfect color on me.
And something else on Charlotte.
Excuse me, but is that a hickey?
- Oh, my God, I don't That's so retro.
- Crouching Charlotte, Hidden Hummer.
Charlotte realized if Samantha defined her relationship as healthy she had one sick relationship on her hands.
The next day, as Trey looked for action Charlotte went looking for answers.
And just like that Charlotte slammed the door on her and Trey.
Evidently, when Charlotte closed the taxi door she opened a whole new window.
The next morning, Miranda got up early to pee in peace and make Doug coffee.
Apparently, when Miranda left the door open for peeing she opened the door for everything else.
Maybe it was narrow-minded.
But for Miranda, an open-door dump was definitely worth dumping someone over.
That's the thing about New York, everyone's always going.
Tonight, it was to the opening of Tao.
Ray's and my first date.
Everyone was there everyone.
So, what? This is the only restaurant in New York opening tonight?
You remember
Sha?
There we were, me, my ex the jazz guy, the model the lesbian, and her friend Samantha.
Sha?
Super for you.
Is there any more wine in there?
Thanks.
Stop.
Mee-Krob-a-licious.
How'd you get this?
You know all the right people.
It's okay by me.
Yeah, man.
Right then and there Samantha decided to let down her boundaries and opened herself up to the possibility of a relationship with a woman.
And in a different bathroom
- I'm sorry.
- No, all set, thanks.
Okay.
I don't really have to go.
Oh?
Something like that.
Okay, I'm gonna My date's waiting for me.
Sorry.
I couldn't avoid it.
Everywhere I went, I was confronted by my Big relationship.
I just left silent "Y" in the bathroom and P.S.
, apparently the '80s are back.
Okay, Ray and I were gonna go first.
- Okay.
Really? 'Cause I get more of a Like a I don't know.
I just scatted on my first date, man, give me some credit.
Somewhere between the Mee Krob and the model, I was dating again.
It was nice.
This is me.
Do-do-do, right back at you. With every second of our kiss it was becoming clearer I really liked this guy.
So maybe that's it.
What ultimately defines a relationship is another relationship.
New York City, no matter how well you think you know it there's always somewhere or someone new to discover.
I was on my second date with Ray King, who lived in Queens but it felt like our second, third and fourth date because we'd been to three jazz clubs in one night.
And where does one learn this skill?
- Is that where you're from?
This might be a good time to tell you I don't like jazz.
I don't know, you can't follow it and there's no melody.
And it's just like It's all over the place.
Don't I have to be in the musician's union or something? You play all those instruments?
It was right about that time that I started to appreciate a little type of music we call jazz.
I listened to jazz.
Okay, here it is.
Last night, with Ray I had the most intense orgasm of my entire life.
It doesn't make sense, I barely know him.
We've only been on two dates.
The mind-blowing sex. Now I realize that this next statement makes me a bit of a freak, but I usually have to be in love with someone to have that kind of orgasm.
- What the hell is going on?
It was probably just a fluke.
I'm going back tomorrow to find out.
How many people will be affected by this strike?
Wait a second.
- You're in a relationship?
How does that work? You go to bed, you wake up the next morning and you're a lesbian?
- I'm a shoe.
I always wanted to be one, and now I am.
Did you just say "eat pussy"?
You know, the truly amazing thing is, I had the news tonight.
- I had the most intense
orgasm of my life and Samantha still managed to up-sex me.
You're a pimp.
Later that night, inspired by Samantha's willingness to explore new territory Charlotte felt it was time to conquer some old territory.
The bed where she and Trey had so much trouble as man and wife.
Just because she was on strike didn't mean she had to do without.
That's how Miranda discovered the perfect relationship.
Jon Stewart and chocolate éclairs.
That night Charlotte and Trey enjoyed a sweet ending to their evening as well.
Charlotte was relieved.
Now that they had fixed their problem in the bedroom she was ready to move back into the other rooms as well.
- Who is it?
Hi, come on up.
Shit.
- Maybe.
Two, okay, nine.
" You just caught us a little off guard with the lesbian thing.
Or Birkenstock.
- A vagina.
- "Schmagina"? Is that what the lesbians are calling it?
Wow.
You really are in a relationship.
Try telling that to her schmagina.
I'm sure that it will be special.
I'm sure it will be special, because
No, Samantha, I'm listening.
I'm listening.
The next day, I thought about what Samantha said.
She wasn't having sex because she wanted to have a relationship and I was having mind-blowing sex hoping to turn it into a relationship.
So there you have it.
We've got a relationship without sex and sex without a relationship.
Which had a better shot at survival? I couldn't help but wonder, what comes first, the chicken or the sex? That night I decided to really talk to Ray.
I figured we needed to catch the relationship up to the sex.
That was the plan.
Wait a minute.
I asked you a question.
Where did you go to school?
It was my best relationship ever.
Meanwhile, over at Casa de Lesbo
Samantha decided if she was going to be gay she'd be gay all the way.
It was a phrase Samantha had never heard in bed before.
" Meanwhile, Miranda, still off sex and on chocolate couldn't bring herself to order the seven éclairs she really wanted.
So she asked for just one.
Miranda decided she didn't need a cake that badly especially when she could make one for under $5.
Every once in a while, a girl has to indulge herself.
- You got me.
Listen, you guys, when she gets here, we have to talk about her relationship. She was mad we didn't take it seriously last time.
I don't know.
They haven't even had sex yet.
She said she wants it to be special.
- Yeah.
- Morning.
- Apparently so.
Some dicks manage just fine.
I am sorry but a finger is not a dick.
" "Boceta, schmagina, let's call the whole thing off.
Look what I bought today.
- My first jazz CD.
Wait, Ray.
Stop.
Don't play anything.
Don't scat, don't chop, don't blend Could we Could we just sit and talk for a while?
I'm not that girl. I'm not any girl, I just want to talk.
You know, talk.
Like, where are you from? You said something about the Jersey Shore.
As Ray talked I realized he wasn't spontaneous and unpredictable and thrilling.
He was a guy with ADD.
What kind of relationship could I have with a guy I couldn't even talk to?
I'd have to end it.
Wanna play me?
Eventually.
Meanwhile, uptown
Charlotte gave Trey one more chance to ask her to move in.
Charlotte was never a woman who cared much about penises and now a penis was running her life.
Forget it.
As Charlotte lathered up she really started to get lathered up.
Who did he think he was? He was her husband, and she was his wife.
What the hell was going on in this Upper East Side nightmare?
Meanwhile, Miranda was getting fed up as well with herself.
Hi, it's me, leave a message.
That night Miranda realized she'd been using chocolate as a substitute for sex and now she needed a substitute for chocolate.
The strike was officially over.
Samantha got the relationship and the sex.
In fact, a little more sex than she'd expected.
I want some water.
The next morning, I woke up with a new thought.
Maybe Ray was like jazz.
Instead of trying to make him be something else, I needed to let go and appreciate him for what he was.
Truly mind-blowing sex.
But unfortunately I got the feeling Ray had stopped playing me and moved on to another instrument.
Walking home from ADD, "another dating disaster" I worried that there's a reason they call it "mind-blowing" sex.
Maybe that kind of physical connection obliterates the chance of an intellectual one.
Or maybe it's possible to find both.
That's what I was hoping, because great sex is great but I still like a song with a melody I can sing to.
New York City can be a terrifying place.
Miranda, I'm still asleep.
How can you have had an emotional mini-drama already?
- Let me think for a second.
- I'm guessing not.
Maybe you inspired him.
Maybe he named the bar "Miranda's" or "Hobbes' Nob.
You have to go.
You guys are friends now, right? That's what friends do.
Of course.
Absolutely.
That's what friends are for.
Forget it, not going.
How did this happen? Why are they even friends?
I love how you say "Jessica," like allegedly that's her name.
You can have mine, sister, 'cause I'm not going.
It's not a party.
It's a parade of our failed relationships.
Next, you're gonna tell me that my junior prom date's the barback.
I don't know what it means, don't want to find out.
" Nice try, I'm not going.
Don't tell me you're in a sapphic slump.
Women. That night, Samantha was determined to get Maria out of the tub and out on the town.
Samantha had to face her past, and Charlotte was facing her future.
Now that Trey had no problem getting hard in the bedroom she saw no reason why their bed should be.
- I think I might have to hear that again.
If the cat heard it
That's not a ghost.
That's some weird upstairs neighbor's nocturnal - what have you.
Did the cat feel it, too?
New York is definitely haunted.
Old lovers, ex-boyfriends.
Anyone you have unresolved issues with, you are bound to run into again and again until you resolve them.
My relationship with Aidan was long dead, but with one invitation he was suddenly a presence in my life again.
Or had he been there all along? Like the chair he made that I could never bring myself to sell.
When a relationship dies, do we ever really give up the ghost? Or are we forever haunted by the spirits of relationships past?
That night, Charlotte found herself haunted by dust ruffles, ducks and Bunny.
But the next morning
Trey was in no condition to talk to anyone.
Since I wasn't going to risk an awkward public confrontation at Aidan's opening, I wanted to at least make a gesture.
Some small way of saying, "Thank you for inviting me.
"For being braver than I could have been.
"And for at least suggesting that we can be friends.
" Hello? There was no sign of him.
But he was everywhere.
In the mahogany bar, the wood floors the carved ceiling.
The whole place looked and felt just like Aidan.
I was just in the neighborhood. I just couldn't resist a little sneak preview.
- No, I just I won't be able to come to the opening so, I wanted to thank Aidan, you know, for inviting me, so it's a mulberry bush.
You know, 'cause the bar is on Mulberry Street.
You did.
So, then Aidan didn't invite me?
I got to go.
That night, I wasn't the only one who was haunted.
One phone call later
Does the ghost like Oreos?
You say that like it's an either-or proposition.
Don't worry.
I checked the rarely invoked haunted-house clause of the best-friend contract, you're completely covered.
Meanwhile, across the park Charlotte, haunted by Bunny's decision to spend the night couldn't sleep either.
And with that Maria released Samantha's ghost and confronted Samantha.
Didn't even leave a card.
Now he won't know what the plant's supposed to mean.
It's like I plant-bombed him.
Like Aidan.
Amazing.
- That's convincing.
But you have something that no one else has, you have a ghost.
But at least Big's the friendly ghost.
Aidan, on the other hand I'm just afraid the way I treated him is gonna haunt me the rest of my life.
- There's nothing I can do about it.
- Didn't invite me.
Do you ever think that you might still have feelings for Steve?
No.
I don't know.
I don't think so.
I don't know.
Thank you.
I left Miranda's early, got some sleep and in the light of day it felt like all my ghosts had disappeared.
And I saw the world exactly as it was.
A few days later, Trey felt better, too.
So did Charlotte.
Especially since Bunny moved out of the guest room and back into her own apartment.
Charlotte didn't know whether it was their making love or their making love on a bed without a dust ruffle that had offended her.
But either way, their sexorcism ensured Bunny never haunted their home again unless expressly invited.
While downtown, a dearly departed spirit suddenly reappeared.
Maria made one last-ditch effort to give Samantha what she thought she needed.
Samantha was touched.
Since she couldn't bring herself to admit she wasn't capable of being in a relationship she simply said.
That night, despite all my fears and reservations I let Miranda and Samantha talk me into going to the opening of Scout.
Who cares? We're looking for Aidan, ladies.
Eyes akimbo.
That's it, stealth.
What you doing there, sister? Getting your groove on, doing the robot?
Could we not have the strap-on conversation right now? This night is hard enough as it is. - All right.
What did I just say?
Sweetie, I'm sorry.
- You most certainly did.
Miranda was right. When you see a ghost, you just know it.
You can feel it.
The hairs on the back of your neck stand up.
That was it? That's all I get?
I don't even know what that was.
All right, that's enough.
I'm going home, I don't know why I came.
- Okay.
And just like that, Miranda gave up the ghost.
An hour later, since my ghost hadn't reappeared I decided to sneak out the side door for some cake and a smoke.
You're not seriously smoking that, are you?
- Shit.
Now I can't eat my cake.
Now you got your fingers all in it.
That's my cake.
I never not wanted it.
You cut your hair.
I thought you were the silent partner.
Good to see you, too.
I had confronted my ghost.
I had accepted and released him but now I was more haunted than ever.
Because what I felt out there was no ghost it was real.
Despite the fact there are over 8 million people on the island of Manhattan there are times when you still feel shipwrecked and alone.
Times when even the most resourceful survivor will feel the need to put a message in a bottle, or on an answering machine.
I wondered what it meant that I wanted to talk to my ex-boyfriend again.
I've been making faux calls to Aidan.
"Faux.
" F-A-U-X, where you dial but you have no idea what to say if he answers.
It's emotional Russian roulette.
- That's pretty much it.
I don't know.
I don't know why I'm telling you.
Don't tell anybody else.
That I'm not going to your African dance class again or that you can't keep a secret?
- And hanging up.
I think I want him back.
How do I do this?
I can accept that.
How do I do this?
The tummy is gone.
At that thing last week, he looked disturbingly good.
He looks good.
That's not why I want him back, I just miss him.
I've missed him for months.
- I don't believe in e-mail.
I'm old-fashioned.
I prefer calling and hanging up.
I can't get e-mail just to write to Aidan, that's pathetic.
- No, shopping is my cardio.
Really? Is there a Nipple Council? Do nipples have a bad rap?
She leads with her breasts.
It's not a good experiment.
"We have secretly replaced Miranda's nipples with rubber ones.
"Let's see what happens.
The next day, sans nipples Miranda's cardio put my cardio to shame.
She was training for the marathon.
Running wasn't the only thing getting her heart rate up.
Miranda was thrilled, but she still wasn't sure if he was interested in anything more than a running buddy.
And uptown, Charlotte's marathon redecoration continued.
There's one room in every marriage that forces the question.
"How long do we want it to be just the two of us?"
Trey and Charlotte were finally on the same page.
And the page had a baby on it.
Meanwhile, Samantha went shopping, nipples blazing and picked up a '94 cabernet and an '84 Harvard MBA.
Warren Dreyfous was a founder of the communications strategy firm that made the Exxon oil spill an "incident" rather than a "debacle.
That night, I tried to compose my first e-mail.
A witty, yet sexy, yet sensitive note to Aidan.
And across town, Samantha was getting some male, as well.
But as a communications strategist he made one major mistake.
Baby talk's the worst.
How can they think it's sexy?
It's like putting ketchup on prime rib.
Stop, you're ruining it.
While others simply choose not to respond to your e-mail.
- Fourteen hours, but who's counting?
Don't you think that maybe it's a wee bit small?
Don't you think that maybe you should wait awhile? - You guys just got back together.
If that's what you want, I'm very happy for you.
- You're welcome.
Good.
- I don't know. Someone you hire to change a kid's diaper?
Tricia Watson was one of those hip moms for whom Barneys would always be stores, not dinosaurs.
Charlotte, 35 with no kids decided it was time to get serious.
The next day, I worked on a little piece I was calling.
"Thirty-six hours, and still no response from Aidan.
" The Indians had to wait up to six months for a response.
It took me six months to get the message that I wanted to be with Aidan.
And now I couldn't wait another minute.
Are all these improvements in communication really helping us communicate? In matters of love do actions really speak louder than words? I decided to take action.
And this time he answered.
Why won't you respond to my e-mail?
It's Carrie, hi. I was just asking if you ever got my e-mail.
- "Shoegal.
That's my screen name.
That's not very neighborly.
I've received two e-mails total.
One from Miranda, and one welcoming me to AOL.
The one I The one to you.
It doesn't even matter.
You know what I was thinking? I was thinking that you and Steve and Miranda and me could go out sometime.
You know, just like as a you know, a fun group thing.
Okay, great, so I'll set it up?
- Okay.
- Bye.
Meanwhile, Miranda's run led to.
"Wanna come up for coffee?"
Which led to sex which led her to believe that Marathon Man could be more than a running buddy.
Did you get my e-mail about our double whatever-it-is?
So far, not impressed with the e-mail.
- You're not going out with him.
You're going as my airbag, in case there's an impact.
Steve's going as Aidan's air bag.
I never had a guy do the TL on me.
One time, it almost happened, but I got the feeling he just lost his way.
How did they get the message that the ass is now on the menu?
- Who is this guy?
- Bingo.
- Me neither.
That night, Charlotte performed a more traditional wifely duty.
She cooked dinner for her husband and their guests.
That night, Trey and Charlotte didn't have sex.
And they didn't have sex the next night, either.
This time, inaction was speaking louder than words.
This guy from pest control comes over and sticks a few dead ones on a tape strip I, on the other hand, was full of words.
They're everywhere.
So I say to him, "What are they?" He says, "Lady, I don't know, that's why I'm sending them to the lab.
" And I'm thinking, "This is New York, this is the pest guy.
"And I got something.
He doesn't know what it is "and that ain't good!"
You know, I think I'm okay.
- No, I think you can go.
The thing is, if you don't leave now then we're gonna have to end the night together. Hug and share cabs according to neighborhood.
And then I won't have any time alone with him.
Okay.
And can you take Steve with you?
You live four blocks from the restaurant.
It's the least I could do.
I think I want to get back together.
You put your hand on my hand.
At the restaurant, you
Oh, well then I guess I should Goodnight.
Goodnight.
Miranda didn't answer her phone, so I left a desperate message and started to send her a desperate e-mail.
Interesting.
Will your tuchis be wanting some lingus?
I guess you'll be having dessert after all.
Aidan kissed me.
We miskissed.
I wasn't going to kiss him.
He said he just wanted friendship.
But then he kissed me.
What does that mean? Oh, my God, he's online.
Can he see me?
- No, I'm going to go back there.
I know he's home.
No, he'll just say that he doesn't want to see me, but he does.
His words said "no," but his kiss said "yes.
I know he still feels it.
When men attempt bold gestures, it's generally considered romantic.
When women do it, it's often considered desperate or psycho.
I was hoping to prove I was neither.
Hey again, you.
- No, I went home.
I came back.
See, I I think No, I feel fairly certain that there is still something between us.
Can I come up and talk to you for a few minutes?
Because of what might happen?
I know that you're probably scared.
I would be, too.
But it's different now.
Things are different.
I'm different.
In fact, wait a second.
In fact, cigarettes? Gone.
Seriously, all bad habits, gone.
This is a whole new thing.
Because I miss you.
And I've missed you.
And it's not just because you look so good, you do, and you should know that.
But I lie in bed at night, and I think about us.
And I think about you holding me.
As I was wishing I had said nothing Samantha decided she had to say something.
Samantha realized that she wore the nipples and attracted a big baby.
And speaking of babies, Charlotte and Trey still were not.
Then Trey told the lie that all parents-to-be have to tell themselves in order to procreate.
Even though the whole experience had them a little rattled that night Trey and Charlotte made love and possibly a baby.
And downtown, Miranda seemingly had her communication problem licked.
And she felt like she should do something in return.
This time, we didn't need any words.
No.
I just I love you.
I still love you, I just wish that I could be your girlfriend again.
His actions said he still loved me, or maybe he just missed me or maybe he needed closure.
Maybe I'd never know.
The next morning, due to sheer embarrassment Miranda got what she needed.
A running buddy who pushed her into the nine-minute mile group.
And I still had no response from Aidan.
Really?
Do you wanna come upstairs?
Yeah! Let's go for a walk.
Don't move, okay? I'll be right there!
Once Aidan and I were back together it seemed like nothing had ever happened to break us apart.
Hi, it's me, go ahead.
I'm
A little machine with a big message.
- Okay, something happened.
Big called while Aidan and I were making love.
The machine picked up.
- Nothing.
We just kept making love.
- Fine, I finished.
I had to.
And I haven't worked that hard at anything since my SATs.
No, we just went to sleep.
And when I woke up, Aidan was on the other side of the bed.
Usually he sleeps right next to me.
You know, like, right here and I just, I get in his little nook.
Maybe, or maybe he'll never forget what happened and every time the phone rings he'll think that it's Big calling to start affair number two.
I was just hoping that we could just start fresh and now we're gonna have to talk about it.
Unless Hallmark makes a "Sorry I Cheated" card.
It's on my answering machine.
I have to talk about it.
Can I change the subject? I'll pay you a million dollars.
Really?
- But you love your job.
The cooking and the AIDS stuff is great, but Color Me Mine, sweetie If I was walking by and I saw you in there I'd just keep on walking.
You sure you're not just having a bad work week?
You seem to have a lot of opinions today.
Later that day, I got to thinking about relationships and partial lobotomies.
Two seemingly different ideas that might be perfect together like chocolate and peanut butter.
Think how much easier it would all be if there was some swift surgical procedure to whisk away all the ugly memories and mistakes and leave only the fun trips and special holidays.
But until that day arrives, what to do? Rely on the same old needlepoint philosophy of "forgive and forget"? And even if a couple can manage the forgiveness has any ever really conquered the forgetness? Can you ever really forgive, if you can't forget? To Samantha Jones, some things were unforgivable.
And taking someone else's cab was right at the top of her list.
He did.
And in a far less friendly bed uptown I was even farther from the nook.
Yet, I still wasn't sure, maybe I was overreacting.
You don't have to go to the gym right now.
- I liked you all soft.
Give me a good morning kiss.
Well, that settled it.
He wasn't forgiving or forgetting.
And speaking of not forgetting
When in a hostile situation some women, like Charlotte, confront it head-on while others
Fresh juice?
- I ran down to the Korean.
It caused quite the stir.
Will you help me patch up, buddy? I got a big tense meeting with my editor in about an hour.
It feels like a two-patch day.
You notice how much better I'm doing this time?
No cheating.
I think I finally kicked that bad habit.
Now I'm practically perfect, don't you think?
That kinda hurt.
What was that?
- Are you mad at me or something?
About the other night
- I'll watch Pete.
You love Pete, I love Pete.
That's just the kind of girlfriend I am.
How 'bout I take my tall drink of water out to dinner tonight? Someplace super nice where the milk is fresh.
Is it a night with the guys, or can girlfriends crash?
No, you go have fun with the guys.
- Hello?
I'm sorry, can I do something?
- Okay, I have a
Miranda's neck is out.
She can't move and I'm just I'm worried that it's too late for me to cancel my meeting.
- You would?
Thank you.
You are a great, great boyfriend.
You know that?
I mean it, you're the best.
Twenty minutes later Miranda's neck had gone from bad to worse.
Samantha was right.
It seemed every aspiring "gallerina" in New York wanted Charlotte's job.
She was determined to find the perfect replacement.
Someone bright, someone smart someone like Charlotte.
Charlotte heard herself lie.
She just couldn't bring herself to tell the girl that her new résumé objective would read.
Wife, mother, and part-time bowl glazer.
That night, I decided to interrupt Guys' Night to give Aidan a quick thank-you-for-helping-Miranda kiss.
You're my hero.
Not only are you great to me but you're great to my friends as well.
Who's a better boyfriend than you?
- Peanuts?
Hi, I'm Carrie.
No thanks, I'm not staying.
I don't want to interrupt the night with the guys.
So, where are the guys?
And Steve I'm sorry, where's Steve?
- That was good.
So, Miranda says that you were amazing.
He helped my girlfriend today.
He took her to the chiropractor.
So, how was Miranda?
Okay, well, I'm gonna go.
- Yeah.
Can you excuse us for a second?
- What is going on?
You tell me.
Okay you do your thing.
Listen, I don't have to work tomorrow so, come on over if you want.
Good luck with four-sies.
It was nice to meet you, Shayna.
I'll see you later.
But Aidan never showed up.
And at about 3:00 am.
, it became very clear that I was being punished for my big mistake.
That cowl neck look is on the way out.
You heard it here first.
How are you, sweetie?
I brought you bagels to cheer you up.
Aidan never came over last night.
He said he would, but he didn't.
And I called him this morning.
He said he thought that "come over" meant today not last night.
- Yeah, that's what I think.
I got the good bagels.
Are you saying you don't want one?
What's the problem? Aidan's better in a crisis than I am.
I can't even remember your cream cheese.
- No, he's a gentleman.
All right, I get it, I'm sorry.
I will never send a boyfriend to do my job again.
Do you want toasted?
Lf I still even have a boyfriend.
I think he's having an affair with a waitress at Scout.
- I'm gonna burn your bagel.
If he hasn't, it's just a matter of time.
Yeah, he's the good guy and I'm the bad guy.
And the bad guy just has to take it, right? I mean you should've seen the way he was acting in front of me.
He's torturing me for what I did to him.
And I deserve it.
I deserve it, right?
Got any jelly?
- Horrifying.
Could you please keep it down?
We're on the Upper East Side.
- Plant their bulbs?
- We are talking about gardening, right?
Okay, please, wait a second, Pete has to go.
Because I'm proving to my boyfriend that I am trustworthy and loving.
And kindly, do not take your anger out on Pete.
- It couldn't hurt.
I don't know that anything happened with the waitress.
Until I'm back in the nook.
Don't say that.
I know it's true, but don't say it.
No! He's got the runs.
- Poor Pete.
Oh, God! He must be sick or something.
- You're not gonna just leave me here?
Pete, no.
Don't walk, you're not done, honey.
He's not my dog! It was right about then I wondered just how much shit was I willing to put up with for my mistake? Poor Pete's poo-poo platter continued for so many blocks I got worried and decided it was time to take him home.
- Here, your dog got sick, I'm leaving.
Taxi! Will you hold this?
- Toxic chemicals?
And she just happened to be there with coffee?
I diapered your dog!
What are you doing?
Why don't you just fuck her?
Then we can both be bad.
Do you want to come in?
Nothing's happening or will ever happen.
You have to know that, right?
I would never do that to you again.
Never.
I can't do that.
He's in my life.
Not the same way you are, but he is.
You can't keep punishing me and I can't keep punishing me.
I made a mistake and I am sorry.
And I know that you can't forget what happened but I hope that you can forgive me.
You have to forgive me.
You have to forgive me. You have to forgive me. You have to forgive me. You have to forgive me. You have to forgive me. You have to forgive me.
Samantha forgave.
And Brad got a lesson he never forgot.
And soon, Charlotte's last day came.
Charlotte left her past to pursue her new life objectives be a good mother, cure AIDS and prove Miranda wrong.
And for the first time in her life Miranda learned the joys of cooking and of not working.
Of course, she'd have to go back eventually just to prove Charlotte wrong.
And as for Aidan he and I weren't quite back to where we were.
We might never be there again but we were in a new place, a more honest place.
And somehow, over time I had made my way back into the nook.
One frazzled Friday, four overbooked girlfriends came from four different directions.
The East Side the West Side Park Avenue and Samantha.
It was the ultimate New York power lunch, also known as the power catch-up.
Okay, let's see Aidan, Aidan, this pimple, Aidan.
Maybe we don't need an hour.
- Yeah?
I know, it's ridiculous.
I need these seven just to get in Aidan's building.
Yeah, but I always make him come to my place.
He buys that two-in-one shampoo.
He does.
All two of them.
No, that's the opposite of Big.
Whoa, Nellie.
"My congregants, please refer "to Position 91 in your prayer books.
"' That night, I came home to find Aidan in the most shocking position of all.
Cooking to the oldies.
You're deflowering my pristine kitchen.
Fajitas!
Charmed, I'm sure.
I'm just looking for something.
Leave George out of it.
What about the fajitas?
If giving a man the keys to your apartment means unlocking the door to home cooking and great sex "why were so many independent women"
Don't, it's not done yet.
Don't read it.
Oh, my God.
Come on, come back.
What - Why is this happening?
My computer just crashed right in the middle I just
Well?
- I don't have a manual! I got rid of it in a feng shui attack.
Oh, my God, I want to kill myself.
Aidan, please.
Please just stop touching it.
Stop it! You don't know what you're doing, just stop! Two meltdowns later we rushed my '98 laptop, in my '99 pashmina, to Tekserve.
Can you please not do that?
- Oh, God, come on!
- Yes.
Hi, thank God.
- Please tell me
that you can fix it.
Me, I did, it's mine.
But then he did something to it.
Tell him what you did to it.
I was typing and then he came over and he kissed me and then I got the bomb.
Is this funny, do you think that this is funny?
You are mortifying me.
I don't do that.
No.
Yes! There was a mean little man who popped up and he had "X's" where his eyes should be.
And his tongue was hanging out the side of his mouth.
- He had a tongue.
Oh, my God, why? What does that mean?
- If?
Oh, God, Miranda, I'm freaking out. What if everything I've ever written is gone?
You know, no one talks about backing up.
You've never used that expression with me before.
But apparently, everybody's secretly running home at night and backing up their work.
Where are you?
Oh, my God.
And you let me go on about my stupid computer?
Is she okay? How could you go to Philadelphia without telling me?
How bad is it?
Can I do anything to help? I'll jump on a train.
I'll come there and keep you company.
Keep me posted, all right?
Meanwhile, Charlotte's afternoon was filled with ovulating and decorating.
She was 12 days into her cycle and three rooms into her lighting project.
She had become a bona fide dimmer expert.
Samantha called in a bona fide positions expert who came fully equipped.
Turns out a half nelson was very much like Position 411.
One half nelson, one full orgasm.
That's okay.
Oh, my God.
Miranda, I'm so sorry.
I'm sure that she knew, on some level that you were with her.
I'll be there, so I can I'll bring you something from your apartment.
Are you sure?
I'd be happy to do it.
I'm so sorry.
Miranda's mother died.
I'm fine, actually.
I don't know.
I don't really know.
Miranda's in Philadelphia.
Her mother had a heart attack yesterday and she died, early this morning.
I don't know.
She's not good.
I just felt so awful for her and I just I didn't know what to say to her and
You know Miranda, she was trying to be so strong but she sounded so alone.
And I just kept saying all the wrong things, I think.
- Thanks, I'm sorry.
- Right.
After breakfast, Charlotte showed her support for Miranda by becoming the Martha Stewart of death.
In times of sorrow, some people have trouble reaching out.
Samantha wasn't one of those people.
But today something was just out of reach. So they tried another position.
299
And when none of those worked they went back to Old Faithful.
Number 17.
You told her.
In the cab?
What do you mean, "lost"?
It happens.
Sometimes you just can't get there.
She's exaggerating.
Please say you're exaggerating.
See, I've been a no-show on more than one occasion.
She has a point.
Listen!
You've got plenty of orgasms under your belt.
You're gonna be fine.
Now, let's retrace your steps.
Were you on top?
- All right, now you're just showing off.
- Sweetie I'm sure it will pop up when you least expect it.
Like jury duty.
Meanwhile in Philadelphia, Miranda realized she needed a shitty black bra to go with her shitty black dress.
From the age of 14, Miranda had a strict "no visitors" policy in the dressing room.
Although her mother never observed it, and neither did Lucille.
Suddenly Miranda realized she would never have a fight with her mother again.
And there, behind the curtain, when no one was looking Miranda found a kind of support that actually fit her.
- It's blue.
That's a very expensive purse.
- When did you get that?
I don't even know how to use that and I don't need it, I have my own system.
- Works just fine.
I am.
I'm not ready for a new computer.
I'm still waiting to hear back about my old one.
My whole life was on that computer.
I'm sorry, but I've been taking care of myself for a really long time.
Meanwhile, Samantha was troubleshooting her own laptop.
She was determined to just relax unwind and let the rest of the world fall away.
By nightfall, Samantha called off the search party.
Somewhere in the city of lost dreams and missing persons Samantha's orgasm remained at large.
The next morning, my own search party called with news of a breakthrough.
You remember me? I'm Number P438W, you have my computer.
There it was, my past. It was a mess.
Can you please tell me why this happened in the first place?
Hello, furniture company.
It's me, the girl who doesn't back up.
This is my attempt to breathe and reboot.
Are you smiling at all over there?
- Okay I'm just on my way to Philly and I just wanted to say that I'm sorry.
This is hard.
I know that but if you start helping me and then I get used to having that help
No good can come of that.
I mean, then what happens when, you know you're not around one day?
- I don't know.
You could be out of town or be busy or
Things fall apart.
We could fall apart.
Then what?
Philadelphia.
Just a hop, a skip, a cab, a metroliner and another cab away.
I'm so sorry.
- How are you?
I think now we know what $500 worth of glitter looks like.
You're a spiritual leader, can't you make something up?
Finally, Samantha found the release she really needed.
She cried for everything she couldn't say and for things she didn't even know she felt.
It's okay.
There's the kind of support you ask for and a kind of support you don't ask for.
And then there's the kind that just shows up.
Thank you.
After all, computers crash, people die relationships fall apart.
The best we can do is breathe and reboot.
And when that fails a little gizmo called a Zip drive can provide a surprising amount of comfort.
So can a boyfriend.
If you can learn to let him
For most New Yorkers, Manhattan is the center of the civilized world. But for a privileged few, Manhattan is merely a place to kill time between weekends at their fashionably rustic New York country homes.
Wow, yeah, the place looks great.
I was willing to forgo the privilege.
- Sorry.
- Could I see the before again?
- No, I can appreciate it from here.
I am? Man, I wish I could. But I have a meeting with my editor in town next week.
You've just thought of everything, haven't you?
That's Miranda, I gotta go. We'll talk about this later.
- Yes, there is. I'll be right down.
See...I'm what you call a bona fide city girl. I'm a girl about town. I'm the kind of girl that goes to a late movie in the middle of the week. I'm crazy.
Several blocks south, Charlotte also found herself in a compromising position.
You know what you need? A nice, relaxing weekend with me at Aidan's country house.
If by ''going'' you mean being taken against my will and kidnapped, then yes, I'm going. So, enjoy me now, ladies. Because this weekend I'm a hick town hostage.
You're at the Connecticut compound? Come on! It's like we're living in Paris and running off to Provence for the weekend.
That's a no, I guess? I guess I'll have to brave the wilderness on my own.
And I love Aidan. And Aidan loves the country. Maybe I'll love the country.
Apparently that's how it works.
No, I believe the word you're looking for is ''compromise.''
It's too terrible and too ironic. It's Suffern. Suffern, New York.
No. God, no.
It was scarier.
- I'll be here.
So, there I was... trapped in a cabin that was outdated even by CiviI War standards when I could've been out cocktailing and sample saleing.
Oh, God!
No! Oh, my God! There was a huge, giant squirrel in that window, right there.
You can't be friends with a squirrel. A squirrel is just a rat with a cuter outfit.
'That's my squirrel''? Any more Wild Kingdom surprises I should know about?
Hours later, we discovered one satisfying way to pass the time in the country. Just not enough time. There I was, miles from home, hours from sleep with no one to talk to, nowhere to go, and nothing to do except.... Three hours, two mosquitoes, and one too many Vodka KooIAids later. I finally found an outlet for my computer, but not my frustration.
Relationships, no matter how good, are inevitably a series of compromises. But how much of ourselves should we be willing to sacrifice for the other person before we stop being ourselves?
In a relationship, when does the art of compromise become compromising?
Meanwhile, back at the center of the civilized world...
Tired of being the ''wake up and smell the coffee'' girl, Miranda invited Steve over for tea and sympathy. Or in Steve's case, Chinese food and Chop Socky.
The next day at the MacDougal's Connecticut compound, Bunny gave Charlotte a tour of her nursery.
I couldn't get any sleep at all last night. The silence out here is deafening.
Then I go to take a shower and there's no water. So, now, he's working on the pipes all day, so I finally had to leave the house before I dehydrated.
- Yes, I'd like a cheeseburger, please, large fries, and a Cosmopolitan?
- A strawberry shake, please.
I'm at the Frozen Cup in HoHoKus. I had to freaking drive to New Jersey to get cell service, and apparently, the only way to get anything to eat in the country is to make it yourself. I'm in no mood for Bisquick.
You have a cook? How far is my country from your country?
What house? He's got squirrels running in here and there. It's Animal Farm. Four legs good, two legs bad.
No. He thinks I love it. I don't even know what I'm doing out here.
- I'm trying, but he's out there hoeing.
- All right.
So, what are we gonna be doing? Are we gonna be schlepping these railroad ties over to the mudhole?
- All righty, then.
- I'm not gonna hurt myself.
- I'm fine, it's just mud.
- Oh, God. Ok, go! Shit!
Ok, I'm not being helpful anymore. I think I should get back to the city. I have that meeting to get ready for. And several showers to take.
Four hours later, I kissed Aidan goodbye, kicked the mud off my boots, and had a New York steak with my New York ex.
I tried, I really did, but nature and me... it's unnatural. And I love being with Aidan. I mean, there's no one in the world that I would rather be... I'm sorry. Is it ok to talk to you about this stuff?
Good. I'm glad that we can talk about this stuff. And listen, if you ever meet someone, I want you to feel…
- So, who is she?
- Is she your imaginary girlfriend?
- She's not an actress, she's a movie star.
I don't know about that. I do know she wears many wrong things on the red carpet. I cannot believe you are dating... someone named after a tree.
- How did you meet her?
She's a smoothie.
Ok, that's plenty. Thanks. That was about 30 seconds. I think I did pretty good. How's the stock market treating you these days?
- Someone's crazy.
- You walked?
- Yeah, the red panty, green-eyed connection.
As I walked off my Big dinner, I realized I'd gone from pretending I didn't hate being in the country to pretending I didn't hate listening to Big's Willow talk. I may have been back in the city, but now I was really suffering. One thing was clear. I had to get back to the country. But this time, I wouldn't rely on the country to provide the entertainment. I would take the entertainment with me. Otherwise known as Samantha.
- What's next, Samantha?
Come on. We're baking a pie here.
One cup of milk. No, we can't. There is no air conditioner. Or milk for that matter.
No, you can't go. You have to entertain me when Aidan goes to bed in an hour.
- I told you that it was rustic.
Aidan worked very hard on this place. Did you know that he put that hot water heater in all by himself? With his own bare hands.
- I'm preheating the oven.
- Young McDonald?
- So, what does he do out here?
Oh, no. What are you up to, SammyJo?
While Samantha worked up an appetite…
...Charlotte's eggs were ready.
While trying to make a baby, Charlotte and Trey accidentally destroyed Bunny's, and Waxie Hanahan's Chocolate Oncidium won first prize for the second year in a row.
Back in New York, the patient Steve was greeted by a patient Miranda.
Meanwhile, on his farm, Young McDonald had Samantha.
Look! I made crust! Now all we have to do is put apples in and it’s pie.
No, you don't understand. The only thing that I have ever successfully made in the kitchen is a mess. And several little fires. Come on, you feel like peeling some apples?
Now? No! You've been outside all day, and I've been cooped up in here. Look, we'll do it together. lt'll be fun, all right? Oh, god. Damn it.
No, I am not ok! I burned my legs! And I... God! I hate that squirrel! I hate this oven! I hate this!
- I hate the house.
I'm sorry, I just... I don't belong here. I don't know where anything goes and I burned my legs. It really hurts.
I'm sorry. I don't hate the house. I hate the squirrel.
Maybe from now on I should just come on the weekends.
- I don't have to come at all.
- Weekends are good.
One slow train ride and two fast-food apple pies later...
I know. Why would anybody go to the trouble of making one when you can buy one that's so perfect, and individually sized? Wait a minute, hold still, sweetie.
- Souvenir?
Taxi! Actually, the country's looking pretty good to me right about now.
- Not next weekend, no.
- You gonna finish that pie?
In the end, of course, Aidan and I compromised. He spent money on air conditioning. And I spent enough time in Suffern to realize that city girls are just country girls... with cuter outfits.
There are a million reasons to celebrate in New York City: Steve no longer having testicular cancer was just one of them.
Miranda, they come in a set like earrings.
Welcome to my world.
Except for yours, darling. I'm very into yours.
- I'm sure you did.
She’s done. Now, I'm thinking balls are to men what purses are to women. It’s just a little bag but we'd feel naked in public without it.
And up on Park Avenue, a different reason for celebrating.
- Do men?
- Like them pulled?
- Do you?
- Like them pulled?
Why don't we give a little tug and see?
- No!
- All right.
You were saved by the bell.
- Who is it? Hello?
It’s really not a good time, we're about to go to bed.
All right. He's having girlfriend problems. I'm gonna be just a minute.
Apparently, dating a movie star makes you as crazy as dating anyone else.
What's the problem?
Did you call her?
Maybe she never got…
I don't know. Very? I thought everything was going great.
I'd better start feeling sorry for you soon.
I'm just gonna be one more minute.
- I gotta go to bed!
'A New York state of mind''?
- No, goodnight.
I'm sorry. So, you still want me to give them a little pull?
Because I know you don't like him calling here, that's all.
I didn't run and I went in there because I know how uncomfortable it makes you.
Me, yes, I'm uncomfortable. I don't want you to feel threatened.
- No, not threatened!
- Who said anything about taking him?
I have no idea. It’s a guy thing. All I know is that in order to deal with Big, he had to turn himself into the Green Lantern.
I don't care if he's the Green Bee. I just wish there was a way for Aidan to really understand that he has nothing to worry about. Maybe I should try to get Big and him and me together.
We could all talk and Aidan could see once and for all that I love him, and Big and I are just friends.
Seriously. Keeping my relationship with Big in the closet only makes things worse.
I spent the afternoon thinking about my friends. Body image depression, unpredictable mood swings, late night phone calls obsessing about a relationship. Did I mention these are my male friends? So, maybe men and women aren't from different planets as pop culture would have us believe. Maybe we live a lot closer to each other, perhaps, dare I even say it in the same zip code?
In view of current circumstances, I couldn't help but wonder, are men just women with Balls?
Samantha finally got her meeting with hotel magnate, Richard. Smart, tough, a real ball buster.
I fake cried to my editor when I missed a deadline. I told him I was having a bad time at home, but really I was having a good time in the Hamptons.
Boo hoo, it was 80 degrees and sunny.
Good move, councilor. That will look much better on the court transcripts of this dinner.
'Hence,'' yet.
I've gotta run or I'm gonna miss my ride with Aidan. Then I'll have to take mass transit to the country, then there'll be some tears.
The next day, while Aidan was tearing down the old shed, I was tearing through the new in Style with Big's big movie star on the cover.
- Hello?
What's the matter? You sound terrible.
- Upstate, we're in the country.
We're taking a long weekend. What's wrong?
I'm so sorry.
You mentioned that. She's crazy, I'm telling you. She has the eyes of a crazy person.
- Monday.
- I'd invite you out here, but it's just so far away.
It’s 40 minutes, you know, if there's no traffic, but with the weekenders and everything, I don't know, an hour, maybe even two.
- Yeah, don't you have to work?
It was Batman. I invited him up. I didn't mean to. I just got trapped. That crazy movie star lady broke up with him, he's devastated. He has no one else to talk to. Before I knew it I was telling him to make a right at the sign for Farm Fresh Summer Squash.
I totally understand. He's gonna come up here, we're gonna have a quick talk. Then he's gonna go right back to the city where he belongs.
You're my man. And I love you. He's just a friend in pain. I would never do this, but he's really hurting. Come on, haven't you ever had a girl break your…
- Thank you.
And in a different urologist's office, at the exact same time.
Turned out, Trey's Scottish sperm was fine. No, better than fine, fantastic.
Turns out, Samantha was wrong, men do talk.
But Samantha couldn't wait. She could feel the tears building up inside her.
The next day, Richard hired Samantha. He told her he admired her balls.
When Big still hadn't arrived two hours later, I was secretly praying he'd missed the sign for Farm Fresh Summer Squash. Then, there it was, the Bat mobile.
- What're you doing just sitting here?
- Why didn't you come in?
Wanna get a drink, where? At a Ye Old Country lemonade stand? Why are you listening to that? Come on, turn off the car and come inside. We'll talk, all right?
- Yes.
Yes, you can, and you better. So, come on, let's go. Come on. Shit.
An hour and two bottles of red wine later, Big started talking. Unfortunately, it was mostly to himself.
All right, give me the magazine.
- You can't smoke in the house.
- Jesus. Look at him, he can't drive.
- What do you think you're doing? You can't drive.
We're an hour outside New York.
- You're gonna have to sleep on the couch.
After the Ball plan backfired, Miranda took Steve out to dinner to lift his spirits.
Miranda realized the one thing she could do to help Steve didn't involve books or Balls.
- Aidan's shooting hoops.
- You have to go out there and make friends with him.
You have me in common. If you and Aidan don't become at least a little friendly, I won't be able to stay in your life.
- You're a guy, he's a guy, there's a ball, figure it out.
There they were. Batman and the Green Bee.
Stop it! Stop it! You're middle-aged!
And just like that, Kato stopped the fight.
Somehow, the storm had passed and I never fully understood why. Ok, maybe men and women don't live in the same zip code, but we're moving closer.
In life sometimes we find ourselves at a crossroads.
In New York that crossroads tends to be busy and very loud.
- Sorry! You're waiting. I know I'm 10 minutes late.
- What?
- I got it.
- You're pregnant, really?
You're sure?
When have you been having sex? I did not mean that the way it sounds.
- You're sleeping with Steve?
I guess that's all he needed.
You didn't use a…
- I see your point.
- Have you told him?
- Right.
- Is it ok not to tell him?
While Miranda took a pregnant pause, Charlotte got an unpleasant surprise of her own, her period.
- Look, Charlotte brought party favors.
Don't worry. You'll get pregnant.
Ok, let's all just…
Charlotte, should we get you a menu?
- Don't say that.
- It’s not you.
No. Samantha, rough estimate?
- It’s not about you.
- Oh, man.
Take a breath. Here, honey, have a sip of water.
- Ok, stop, please. Stop.
- Come on, Charlotte, please sit down.
She didn't mean it. All she can think about right now is babies.
- One.
TGI Friday's? Please, can we not make this worse than it was?
He was a waiter at The Saloon, ok?
And let me remind you, in 1988, The Saloon was very happening.
- Nothing.
Ok, I want to tell you something, but if I tell you, you have to swear you're not gonna tell anyone.
- Here. Swear on Chanel.
- Ok, Miranda's pregnant and she's having an abortion.
And Charlotte's devastated, because she's been trying to get pregnant. She's been having a really hard time, and it's just bad all around.
- No. It's not like a sweater.
See, this is the reason that you can't tell anyone. It’s Steve. And he doesn't know.
- What?
I'm sorry, I had to tell you. It’s all I could think about. Look, I can't even pick a shoe.
- What?
- Technically, it does not gonna be anybody's baby.
You know it's a tough situation. I don't know.
- No. God no. Thank God.
- Which one?
- The Birkin bag? Really? That's not even your style.
It means you're out $4,000.
- Ok, let's go, the visiting hours are over.
- I'm going with Miranda when she goes.
Why didn't you just ask someone to go with you?
I lied to Aidan about having one. I don't know. It just came out.
And the thing is, I think he seemed relieved, relieved that he could still think of me in a certain way. I don't know why I lied to him.
I know, but I never told the guy or anything.
- I could have a 13yearold child.
- But then I wouldn't have known you. Can you imagine it?
- I should have told Aidan.
So many roads, so many detours. So many choices, so many mistakes.
As we drive along this road called life, occasionally a gal will find herself a little lost.
When that happens, I guess she has to let go of the coulda, shoulda, woulda buckle up, and just keep going. As we speed along this endless road to the destination called ''Who We Hope To Be'', I can't help but whine, are we there yet?
For a publicist like Samantha, the road to success was paved with stars.
Case in point, lunch with Lucy Liu.
Samantha was never one for waiting in line. So she cut right to the front.
And over on Park Avenue Charlotte decided she couldn’t wait any longer, either.
A couple of days later, Samantha went down a road she shouldn't.
Oh, my God! You scared me.
- Nothing. Absolutely nothing. How are things?
- What do you mean?
- She's great.
- Did you tell him?
- About Miranda and the…
- Are you sure?
- He's asking about Miranda.
- You told him, didn't you?
- Listen, it's ok, I can't keep secrets either, obviously.
- He's looking at me funny.
- Are you sure?
- What does that mean?
- It doesn't have anything to do with you.
Listen, sometimes you get in situations that are hard. You wish not be having this conversation with him in the next room. So just go. Go, because he's probably listening.
- Nothing.
- Ok.
- Have you thought any more about telling Steve?
- I don't know, maybe he has a right to know. No judgment.
- I told Aidan.
- I had to.
- He will not, I made him swear on Chanel.
Wouldn't you want to know?
Jesus, it was The Saloon. And no, I didn't. It was completely different.
I was 22, we barely knew each other. We slept together once. After a drunken night at The Tunnel.
- I was thinking maybe I should have told him.
After they learned about their detour on the road to baby, Trey had to go back to the Hospital and Charlotte decided to walk home.
Charlotte walked all the way home. And even though she never turned back, she knew Miranda was behind her.
And there went Lucy Liu. ALL 'cause of a lucy lie.
Meanwhile, I found myself back at a familiar crossroads, the corner of Columbus and 1988. It was amazing. It hadn't changed at all. Same table, same menu. Same waiter.
I couldn’t believe it. His roller skates were gone and his Tony Danza Taxi hair was thinner, but it was definitely Chad. ''Drunken night at Tunnel'' Chad.
- Hello there.
- Chad?
It’s me, Carrie. Bradshaw. We met, like, 13 years ago. I came in a few times, half lemonade, half iced tea? And then there was that night at The Tunnel.
- You went to Tunnel.
- It’s Carrie.
- I'll take the lentil soup, I guess, and some crackers.
No. You were the perfect gentleman.
I stayed in 1988 just long enough to realize I had made the right decision. Even though I was sitting in the same seat, I was in a totally different place.
Do you suffer from headaches?
Allergies? Diabetes?
I think I can write that in.
- Not really. Mostly it's just unpleasant.
- You're gonna have to ask them.
- Any day now.
- Miranda, I cannot answer that.
- What do you think?
- You wanna go one more round?
43?
- Mine's 45.
Sweetie, do you want to leave?
- I got it.
I felt the same way about Entenmann's lemon strudel.
And with those four little words, three aunts were born.
As for me, I shoulda left Miranda's earlier so I woulda been on time.
Ten minutes late. That's the charm of me.
- I'm your party?
- We can go someplace else.
- Wait. There's a wait to wait?
- Excuse me. Sorry.
- That's classy. And no waiting.
I lied to you. I did have an abortion. The condom broke.
Ok, that's another lie. There was no condom.
I'm afraid you're gonna judge me. For being 18 and sleeping with a guy without a condom and getting pregnant and never telling him.
There, that's the whole truth. Except that I was 22. I should've known better.
- Yes. So are you judging me?
- Why? Did you ever get a girl pregnant?
- Goddamn, it must be nice to be a guy sometimes. So, am I still your girl?
And another thing. Miranda's keeping the baby. Don't tell Steve. It’s not our business.
They say life is what happens when you're busy making other plans. But sometimes in New York, life is what happens when you're waiting for a table.
New York welcomes and shelters the tired, the poor, the persecuted who have been forced to leave their homes at the whim of a ruling class. Therefore, it's ironic that all Manhattanites face the same horrible uncertainty, knowing that any day they may have to utter the tragic words.
- My building's going co-op.
My building's going co-op. I have to move, this is a nightmare.
- Yeah, ok, sure. That's a great idea.
Aidan, I just charged tomatoes. I really don't think I'm in a position to buy an apartment.
- You are?
I had no idea. You have a girlfriend, moneybags?
- Figures.
You're not buying my apartment for me.
- So then are you .Would that make you my landlord or my roommate?
- What would the rent be like?
- Does that include utilities?
I have to admit, I was tempted by his offer. We were spending almost every night together already and we were in love and moving is such a pain in the ass. And so were the hormone injections Charlotte was facing nightly.
As Charlotte's plan for parenthood progressed with or without Trey, I began to wonder if Aidan's plan was progressing without me. He never officially moved in, but his stuff was everywhere.
- I threw up. I saw the ring and I threw up. That's not normal.
- I don't know.
- It hasn't been long enough. Has it?
So, it might not be right.
Maybe this is all happening because my building is going co-op.
Is this a real estate merger? Am I a real estate bride?
- That's the other thing. The ring was not good.
- It was a pear shaped diamond with a gold band.
- It’s just not me.
- Yeah, like ghetto gold, for fun. But this is my engagement ring.
- You knew about this?
I'll just say ''I'm not ready to get engaged yet, but I love you and I wanna live with you.''
How does that sound?
It’s a ''yes'' to living together. That's a big deal, a first for me. Don't I get some credit for that?
I'm gonna have to act surprised. I wonder when it's gonna happen. You know when He'll do it?
Now you're not involved. Now that I'm stuck with the bad ring. See, that's a nice ring. He should have known that ring wasn't me. How can I marry a guy who doesn't know which ring is me?
Is it true what Charlotte said? Does anybody really know when it's right? And how do you know? Are there signs? Fireworks? Is it right when it feels comfortable or is comfortable a sign that there aren't any fireworks? Is hesitation a sign that it's not right or is it just a sign that you're not ready?
In matters of love, how do you know when it's right?
Downtown, Samantha was meeting with Mr. Wright, Mr. Richard, that is. The hotel magnate slash megaclient who was fast becoming the pain in her ass.
Meanwhile, Miranda had been waiting for the right place and the right way to tell Steve about the baby.
Instead she settled for right now.
Later that week, I decided to head Aidan off at the pass by taking him out to dinner and accepting his proposal.
So, yes. I say yes to living together. I think that we're ready for that step. We still have to work out the money 'cause I don't want a free ride. We're still individuals. But We'll be sharing a life and an apartment. Yes, Aidan I would love to live with you.
- Would you Excuse me for a minute?
I'm just gonna go to the bathroom… God, what are you doing?
- No. No, I wasn't. I'm sorry.
- No. I would say no to desserts.
Taxi! What, come on, buddy, you've got nobody in there.
- Is this the city's solution to the cab shortage?
- Admit it, you drive around looking for me, don't you?
- You've got the good shops.
Yeah. Are you seriously giving me a ride? Is it on your way?
- Thank you.
- Good, you?
- Then I've been very, very good.
- All right, then I take back one ''very.''
- You know his name now.
- Things are very good there, too.
- What?
- I don't think you want to know.
- Are you sure?
- I think he wants to marry me.
- I know, actually.
- No, l… it's just the kind of thing you know.
- Let's not talk about it.
He might be the guy for me. I'm just not ready yet.
- And you, I guess, are? So, what does that tell us?
- Yeah. In any case, I'm not taking relationship advice, from you.
- Spy girl. Did you tell Aidan I didn't like the ring? Did you tell him not to propose?
- Did he change his mind? Why hasn't he asked me yet?
I just think it's weird, he has the ring. What if he realized I'm not the one?
- But he doesn't know that, unless you told him.
- What happened, did someone propose to you?
Apparently, we've reached the stage where our lives are making us sick. Man.
The New York Scottish Society's Annual Highland Fling. Any Scot who was anyone was there, including, of course, Bunny MacDougal.
Meanwhile, Samantha's professional relationship really started to take off.
Sometimes, the question is, how do you know when it's not right?
- It was nice being in the bed.
- Ok, but why do I have to go?
Pete would never leave me. Pete loves me so.
This just gets better and better.
My God, it's not… God. That's such a beautiful ring.
- Yeah.
Maybe there are no right moments, right guys, right answers. Maybe you just have to say what's in your heart.
- Yes.
That night I surprised myself.
And Miranda was getting a surprise as well.
Miranda knew Steve wasn't right for her, but she wanted to do what was right for her baby.
There was one person I needed to tell that surprisingly I was the marrying kind.
- I have something to tell you.
- I'm engaged.
- He switched the ring on me.
- And look, it's a really good ring.
- What?
So, now you want me to get married?
- Thank you.
- Are you tan, lady?
Rio with the CEO? A mistake.
Someone once said that two halves make a whole. And when two halves move in together, it makes a whole lot of stuff.
- Hey, what's…
I got coffee and papers, but I think the more pressing question is, what have you been doing?
- Yes, I can see that.
Yeah, sure yes, it's just… you're blocking the bathroom door.
I do, me. Me, the one who loves her two bathroom doors.
Sometimes I'm in a hurry and it's just quicker to go, ping, out that one and it's my escape route in case.
In case rapists come in my bedroom window I see them in the mirror and then, phew, I'm gone.
And would that be happening in the next five minutes please, God?
Hello, Petey. Really, what's the problem, right? It’s just boxes, right?
A plant! The man brought a living thing into my apartment. I don't do plants. I kill everything I bring in there.
But he's taking over whole areas.
And there's no walls, there's nowhere to hide. As soon as I walk in, he's all up with: ''Who'd you see? Where'd you go? Who'd ya meet? What'd ya know?'' What I know is, I need time to decompress. Just be alone.
You guys, I miss walking into my apartment with no one there and it's all quiet and I can do that stuff you do when you're totally alone, things you would never want your boyfriend to see you do.
My S.S.B., my Secret Single Behavior. Like, I like to make a stack of saltines. I put grape jelly on them. I eat them standing up in the kitchen reading fashion magazines.
- It’s weird, but it just feels great.
He would. You can't do that stuff in front of men. What about you, Lolita? Anything you do you wouldn't want a man to see?
Hey, didn't we make a rule about those things at lunch?
Nice. A little skyrockets in flight, afternoon Delight?
I also like to gossip on the phone while secretly pumicing my calluses.
- Samantha likes a guy.
All right, so, what should I do about Aidan's stuff?
Some apartments are cluttered with physical stuff, others, emotional stuff.
It was perfect: long, pink, amazing.
Walker Lewis, fluent in five Languages, traveled the world as a State Department interpreter.
If one more person asks me that today.
I've rarely heard that used as a plus, but go on.
Because so many men are.
Again, 'cause so many men are.
- Where do you think dimples come from?
- I try.
- You're not on death row.
It’s your body, your life. You do what's best for you.
Hi, Mrs. Cohen! Hold on a second. Here, let me help you. Hold on, here we go. Hello. Okay?
- Okay, Mrs. Cohen, this is my friend, Miranda.
- What? But we're closing in a week.
I didn't think Mrs. Cohen could move any slower, but apparently she could.
Brace yourself, partner. I been outside, and what's up is Old Lightning Rod next door informs me she will not be leaving for 30 days.
Thank you. You hate it, too, I'm so relieved! I thought you'd already changed into a pod. Invasion of the Single Snatchers.
I know, did you see me? Every time! Every single time!
Careful!
Listen to me. I have laid out clean towels on the floor of the bathroom. Gently place the shoes and boxes on them. I forgot I had these. Things are looking up.
- That is not the way to get out of this alive.
- I figure you've gone mentally ill.
- Yet! I never wear most of this stuff yet. Someday I will.
Don't do that. Don't mock the clothes. And for the record, have worn it. December, '99, Union Square, book signing.
- Come on, I love this outfit.
That's when I realized I was holding on to a Roberto Cavalla outfit and throwing away my relationship.
- Okay, it goes!
Bye. Pete! Hey, Pete! Stop it! Pete, stop it! Pete, my God! Pete, hey! Don't show it to me, don't even show it to me! I think I saw turquoise. That better not be the pair I think! Goddamn it! That dog owes me $380.
- You can't buy it, it's circa 1996! Goddamn it!
My shit wouldn't be lying around if we weren't making room because your shit is lying around.
What? Look at this place. It’s loaded with your shit. Just look at this bathroom! Look at all your shit in my bathroom. Who needs five almost empty Speed stick deodorants? What are you, a crazy bag man?
And when have you ever worn musk? Look at this stuff, you got old razors, Rogaine. Wait a minute. You use Rogaine? I didn't know you needed.
- Is your hair falling out?
It seems it's not only women who have Secret Single Behavior.
This is my stuff! Don't be going through my stuff.
I don't ''always do'' anything. And I have let you in.
Shut up! It’s Roberto Cavalli. I threw it away and I love it! What more do you want?
- Yes, shut up!
Please, just shut up! I'm so sick of hearing you talking all the time! Don't you ever just shut up?
No. I'm taking a walk! You can stay here with your boxes of shit and your shoe eating dog and you can knock yourself out putting on the Rogaine and the Speed stick! This is why I need a second door! I heard that!
I used to think those people who sat alone at Starbucks writing on their laptops were pretentious poseurs. Now, I know. They're people who have recently moved in with someone. As I Looked around I wondered how many of them were mid-fight like myself. The hard thing about fighting in relationships, as opposed to Madison Square Garden, no referee. There's no one to tell you which comments are below the belt or when to go to your separate corners. As a result, someone usually gets hurt. And it seems, the closer a couple gets and the more ''stuff'' they have between them, the harder it is to figure out exactly why they are yelling. When it comes to relationships I couldn't help but wonder what are we fighting for?
But to Charlotte, it was definitely hitting below the belt.
And across town, Miranda decided it was time to put on the gloves and come out swinging.
Pregnant or not, Miranda had needs and decided to stop fighting them.
And surprisingly, Samantha developed some Secret Single Behavior of her own.
Seven hours and a landside of lattes Later I vibrated home, prepared to admit how silly I'd been.
That was until he wasn't prepared to admit how silly he'd been.
He yelled, then I yelled. It’s been three days, and nothing. Not a word. And I'll be damned if I say I'm sorry first.
- Relax. Chew. You'll get laid. You're not meeting until 10:00.
- Sweetie? It’s perfectly okay to like a guy.
There we were, right in the middle of a Wasp nest.
- We're gonna go.
- Goodnight!
Seeing a bantam-weight championship fight like Charlotte and Trey's made me thankful that Aidan and I were still in the banter-weight division.
- I’ m sorry.
That night, I slept in my clothes. Trey and his baby slept in the guest room and Charlotte no longer cared what Trey thought.
For her last meal, the condemned woman had seconds and thirds.
Samantha met the dawn after a night of S.S.B. Sexy Swimming Behavior.
Samantha finally threw in the towel. All this time, she'd been trying to make him just a perfect dick, fighting her feelings that he might be the perfect Richard.
And back at the Bradshaw Shaw residence it was pretty much business as usual.
- Buddy, I need you to do something.
I've never lived with anybody before you, so I don't know how to say this correctly but I need you to not talk to me for one whole hour. I know that sounds pretty selfish but it's just what I need. Is that okay? Okay, good. We don't have any other rooms yet, so I'm gonna close these and then it's like I'm not here. For one whole hour, I'm not here. Thanks. I love you.
So, what are you doing out here?
That's the thing about needs, sometimes when you get them met, you don't need them anymore.
As our 30 days wore on, Aidan and I miraculously managed to not kill each other. But, as I predicted, the plant was not so lucky.
One of the best things about New York is that on any given night there are a million things to do.
One of the worst things about New York is trying to pick one.
You want me to see if I can get us into Town? You know that restaurant in the Chambers hotel, with the period in the name, Town period. It’s supposed to be amazing. Exclamation point.
- What?
- But it's Saturday night.
Is that your standard greeting now?
My dinner might be arriving in a bucket. You want to go out?
- You know how to do that?
- What are you doing?
- We're going out.
- It’s 7:30, were you asleep?
No, we're all going. We have to shake things up before we officially become boring.
- I say we go dancing.
- You're not. You're pregnant.
That night we finally answered the age old question: ''Where are all the hot guys?'' Well, the hot gay guys. They were at the hot gay club, Trade.
- That's because we're wearing shirts.
Because gay men have the possibility of sex at the gym. If straight men had that they'd be working out all the time, too.
- Samantha is doing her part to motivate the masses.
- Wait. We'll meet you at the bar?
- Hi!
- Are you two together?
- You're dirty.
- No, I'm good. You kids go have fun.
- Okay.
- Which one?
Sir? Hello! Excuse me! Over here. Hello, anybody!
- A penis, evidently. I'm trying to order a dirty martini.
- Thank you.
- Hello.
Oliver, you're a dead man. I have no idea what I'm talking about. What do you do?
- It would be cruel to kid me.
- So, then you get a discount?
- Thank you. Cheers!
- What?
- Oh, this. I keep forgetting I'm engaged.
- I'm still allowed to see other gays.
Sure. What's this, a goody bag?
- Jox and Cocks Four.
Would I be able to enjoy this if I missed Jox and Cocks One, Two and Three?
Max was a junior associate at Miranda's law firm and, apparently, gay.
- I got a phone number and some porn.
- My God, look.
They say opposites attract. What they fail to mention is that opposites also tend to have opposite views on what constitutes a rockin' Saturday night.
I've got a goody bag. Know what's in it? C'mon, I had to fight a foreigner for it.
- I'm not tired yet.
Hey you, I had five Cocktails. I danced with a lot of fine half naked men. If you would wake up right now I can almost guarantee you'd be in for some FUN.
I know it was wrong to compare but I felt like I had spent the evening in a Calvin Klein ad and now I was back to baseball, buckets, and BVDs.
Meanwhile, Samantha was having excellent sex.
- You told him you loved him?
- Okay, and then what did he say?
Is it possible he didn't hear you?
- But you did have sex, right?
Aidan and I didn't. He fell asleep and I watched gay porn.
- Do you love him?
- Maybe the ''X'' knows.
But you only said it to Richard.
That afternoon I was high on another feel good drug: the new gay friend.
- They say you can't meet men in bars.
And your boyfriend doesn't mind if you date other men?
- Right, the international gay rules.
You've certainly worked out more options than ''Till death do us part.'' That's all we've come up with, and frankly, I find it a little limiting.
What's with you and this ring?
- Aidan.
- He's very tall and incredibly kind. And handsome.
He wanted to stay in and listen to sports with a bucket of chicken.
No. But I hear it's a pretentious, members only, tiny, crowded club that you need a key to get into.
- When are we going?
- Young Stanford! How are you?
- Oliver Spencer, Stanford Blatch.
- I'll be right here.
- Yes?
- The beautiful man is gay.
He's only been in New York for about six months. I picked him up at Trade.
- It wasn't the same.
- Is just brunch.
- Yes, you are.
Later, I started to think about restlessness and relationships. Once we found what we've been searching for, why are some of us reluctant to let go of our single selves? Is single life in New York such a constant flurry of fun and friends that settling down immediately fills us with the urge to shake things up again? And why does becoming part of a couple imply settling down? Maybe Oliver does have the key. We shouldn't expect to get everything from one man but instead, feel comfortable getting different things from different people. Although, at what point do separate interests become separate bedrooms? I couldn't help but wonder, to be in a couple do you have to put your single self on a shelf?
Meanwhile, Miranda's workaholic single self was a thing of the past. Now, she was sleeping for two.
Relax, I've watched it already, and I'm telling you, this is really funny.
- Not in the mood for gay porn?
Oliver's taking me to Bungalow Eight tomorrow night.
No, that's allowed. Gay boyfriends are the loophole of monogamy.
Okay, here's the problem. Aidan loves to stay in, and I love to go out.
It’s either the greatest relationship ever, or we're headed…
You're not a bad person. You're a person with needs.
The next morning, Samantha and Richard were taking care of business, but not each other.
Once Richard made it clear that her ''I love you'' didn't matter, Samantha realized she was secretly wishing it did.
She wanted to tell him it wasn't just the drug talking that night. But she put her real feelings on the shelf.
Charlotte and Trey's separate interests had become more than separate bedrooms. They'd become a real separation.
Charlotte and Trey's separate interests had become more than separate bedrooms. They'd become a real separation. Meanwhile, I tried to find a way for my single self and my couple self to co-exist.
Meanwhile, I tried to find a way for my single self and my couple self to co-exist.
- I told you yesterday I was going out.
- I have to see Bungalow Eight.
No, it's a very hot club. It’s important that I know about these things. Some people consider my column the New York survival guide.
- It’s just something I'm trying. It’s closer to my heart this way.
- This guy, Oliver Spencer.
- He's gay.
I don't know. I don't know if he can get us both in.
- You need a key or something.
- See, that kind of attitude is not appreciated at Bungalow Eight.
I can't. I told Oliver…
See, now I feel bad. I basically discouraged him from coming.
- This is so not his scene.
Right, what's a relationship compared to a night with trendy strangers?
- I'm your date?
Turns out there's one problem with having a handsome gay man as your date. Other handsome gay men.
So, Ollie? Is there anything to eat at Bungalow Eight? Or is food so very last year? Okay, it seems you're in the middle of a spa session, so…
You know, I left a gorgeous man at home to come here and be your date. And I'm guessing size 11 did as well. So, I'm just not really sure why I'm here.
I was so preoccupied with my gay boyfriend I kept forgetting about my gay husband.
- You remember Stanford, from brunch?
- I assure you, I never wore candies.
And then I realized, my single self life had a shelf life, and it had just expired.
- Okay, I'm going.
No, it's fine, I just want to go home.
And the surprising thing was, I did.
- Honey, I'm home.
- I've seen better.
- More research for the survival guide?
- Oh, yeah. Give me some of that.
That's the thing about Manhattan. The most exclusive clubs only have a couple members and they're very hard to find. The next morning, House and Garden came to Charlotte's house.
Trey had moved out by the time the magazine was on the stands. But all over America, little girls in their mothers' pearls saw the picture and thought, "That's what I want." That's the thing about relationships. Sometimes they look prettier from the outside. And what's inside can be different than it seems.
When a marriage breaks up, there are numerous ways to cope. You can cry. You can move.
Or, as Charlotte did, dive into a new routine. A tap routine.
Because you can't do one without the other.
There it was, the unmistakable voice of Susan Sharon.
Same old, same old. Just writing, gallivanting, eating. You know, the usual.
- What?
I'm engaged!
It’s here, it's right here.
No, it's just me. It’s closer to my heart this way.
God, we haven't even begun to think about that stuff.
The next morning, a hotel mogul and his publicist began another grueling day at work.
As intimate as their personal affair had become, when it came to their business affairs, Samantha remained cool and professional, in theory.
In an effort to drown out thoughts of Richard canoodling with Bebe London, Samantha focused on her own caboodle.
And in a more modest shower uptown…
Excuse me, have we met?
I forgot about the washer and dryer. I've been dreaming of that my whole New York life.
- What's that?
As what, the 50th state?
- Buddy, did you just pun in the nude?
- What did I tell you about that? Give me the soap.
- What, about Hawaii?
Come on, do I look like the ''Hang10,'' ''Surf' sup'' kind of bride to you? 'Cause I really think my grass skirt days are over.
For a shower with so little water pressure, I suddenly felt a ton of it beating down on my shoulders.
- I'm sorry?
My God! You're having a boy?
What exactly does a fake sonogram look like in case I ever need to do it?
I get the same thing every time someone hears I'm engaged. I'm supposed to be all excited about picking a date, and a place, and a theme. And I just want to lie down and take a big nap. I feel like a deadbeat bride.
I better do something soon because I'm getting the distinct feeling my Grace period is OVER. I don't even want to look for a dress. Me, no dress! What's wrong here?
God, I have to go to the dentist.
How do you even know this?
You want me to try on a bad wedding dress? You're gonna have to do a lot better than Tasti Delite.
Woo!
- Hello.
My friend Miranda here is getting married. So we're looking for something special and we're in kind of a hurry.
We both are. We do everything together. And right now, Miranda has everything but the gown. And the groom.
No, it's a very straight-laced, conservative crowd. Lots of Wall Street types.
- Your rehearsal dinner is gonna rock.
Okay, on the count of three. One, two…
- Look at you.
- Look at yourself!
My God. This is too tight, I can't breathe. Can you get it off me?
- No, I'm not kidding!
I'm not kidding. Get it off! I'm burning up. I can't breathe!
- Just get it off, just rip it off!
- I can't do it, I can't get married.
Rash, yes exactly, rash. Look at this. My body is literally rejecting the idea of marriage. Look!
No, it's not him, it's me. I'm missing the bride gene. I should be put in a test tube and studied.
Why do we even have to get married? Why? Give me one good reason. Aside from the not wanting to diea lone thing. Which is something to think about, I admit.
But I feel secure now. Things are great with us. You know what they say, ‘‘If it ain't broke, ''
- I don't know. Nothing. Everything.
- Why aren't they speaking up?
Because I love him. A man you love, kneels in the street and offers you a ring, you say yes.
That's what you do.
No, I can't take a vow of forever and ever, if what I mean is for the foreseeable future. I can't do that to Aidan.
How do you talk about this? ''Aidan, what's up? ''I've just been thinking, having some doubts about the whole 'I do' thing.'' It’ll break his heart. I should never have said yes. I'm a bad person.
Interesting theory. You think that dress is still outside the dumpster at Tasti Delite?
After being hit by a bridal wave I tried to get my mind around the concept of happily ever after.
As progressive as our society claims to be, there are still certain life targets we’re all supposed to hit. Marriage, babies, and a home to call your own. But what if, instead of breaking out in a smile, you break out in a rash? Is something wrong with the system? Or is it you? And do we really want these things? Or are we just programmed? In a crisis, people always tell you to listen to your gut. Mine was telling me to start smoking again.
Hi. Marlboro Lights, please.
But I decided not to throw it all away.
You know what? Actually. Just these.
Later, while Aidan worked on the apartment next door, I worked on reprogramming my attitude. Could I be a spring bride? Happy bride? Peek-a-boo bride?
Stop! Stop, Aidan, stop it! Aidan! I'm freaking out. I can't, l. I cannot. I am having a very strong reaction to all this change.
- I am freaking out! It all just feels really fast.
- It’s not just the hole!
It’s the marriage stuff. I love you and I'm sorry if I'm not supposed to talk to you about this. But I have to.
I didn't want to say anything but then that thing came through my wall. I don't think that I'm ready to get married yet. Do you hate me?
- I know, I just…
Thank you for making a joke.
Which year?
- Yeah. I think so.
- Thank you, Aidan. Thank you for listening.
- I love you.
The next day, Miranda enjoyed a few moments of solitude with her bills and her cleaning lady.
And while Miranda had tea for one, Charlotte was mastering Tea for Two.
In her attempt to skip over her grief, Charlotte tapped into her pain.
The next week, we all put on our finest and gathered at the Black and White Ball, Richard's charity fundraiser.
- Yeah.
Good, good. Still a little thrown about the change in plans, but good. I just hope I did the right thing.
Do you realize you're growing a teeny tiny penis inside you? That's so sci-fi.
Samantha could handle the press, but she couldn’t the truth.
The fucking Richard is fucking the entire styles section and for the first time in my life, I actually give a shit. I think I have monogamy. I must've caught it from you people.
It’s airborne.
- Just tell Richard how you feel.
Every day, millions of people suffer from monogamy. There is no known cure.
In fact, she did. Samantha gave J.J. an exclusive just to prove to herself that she was not.
It wasn't the first time a guy went soft on Samantha, but it was the first time she didn't care.
That's a very good look for you.
Thank you.
Aidan, this isn't funny.
- What about what we discussed?
Yes, I'm scared. Come on, Aidan, we talked about this.
Because I need more time.
This isn't about you. I'm not ready for marriage.
Not necessarily. Why can't we just keep things the way they are, just live together?
Aidan, you're pushing me.
If it's just a stupid piece of paper, then why do we need it?
Who else's would I be? Oh My God. You still don't trust me.
I am yours. There is nobody else. I love you. But I can't marry you to make you trust me. Look at me. Look at me before we make a huge mistake.
- That's not true.
- Really?
- Just for tonight?
- Shit.
We had left the land of black and white, and now, everything was gray.
To the outside world, Miranda's maternal gene might never kick in. But that night she felt a real kick from deep inside.
There are some walls you can push through and some you can't. That was the only night we would ever spend on the other side of the wall. The next day, Aidan moved out.
A girl in pigtails once said, ''There's no place like home. '' But then her home didn't have a toilet that flushed for no reason...and a boyfriend who was moving out for one big reason.
- Okay.
- No, it's okay. I can get someone to come and fix it.
You can't leave. Our last words to each other can't be ''Ball Cock.'' You should definitely stay...at least for another day. Or forever.
- Are you sure?
Aidan... this is difficult to say. I left the ring on the clown table.
No, I should never have accepted it in the first place. I'm sorry. Please take the ring.
- Please take it. If you do or say... one more nice thing...
I can't watch you leave, so I think I am gonna... I'm better... I'm gonna stand here. Could you just... could you just shut the door?
I know. Go. Three hours later, I peeled myself off the bathroom floor. Apparently, there were things that were difficult for Aidan to say, as well. I curled up to read Aidan's last words to me, also known as the goodbye letter.
Great love stories are supposed to end with tragedy and tears, not papers from the law firm of Gold and Vogel.
Vacate? I'm homeless. I'll be a bag lady, a Fendi bag lady, but a bag lady.
- I am not a buyer. New York is a town of renters. Everybody rents.
- You got yours in the settlement. You did not have to pay for it.
- Excuse me! You bought the Chanel wallet?
- You don't know that.
- ''Best.'' Yikes.
- Even Gold and Vogel give you ''sincerely.''
- Aidan wanted me to keep the ring.
No. It was the right thing to do. Do you ever think about giving yours back?
- I couldn't keep it. Every time I looked at it, it would break my heart.
There, in the wedding band boneyard, Charlotte started to melt down.
- I just paid my credit card bill.
Look, Linda. You're single, right? I'm sure you can appreciate my problem. I just broke up with my fiancé which, trust me, is traumatic enough.
And now I have 25 days to either find the money to buy my place or I am out on the street.
No. But I was chosen as New York magazine's best pick for city columnist. I was the pick over Pete Hamill.
- No. No. No.
After assessing what little assets I had, I realized I would have to change my lifestyle.
- Excuse me, could you tell me how much the bus is?
Really? Wow. Last time I took the bus, it was like 75 cents. You know, for $3 more, you could take a cab. For crying out loud.
- My thoughts exactly. So here I was, a 35 year old single woman with no financial security but many life experiences behind me. Did that mean nothing? After All, heartbreak and breakups are the hardest kind of work. So shouldn't there be some sort of credit for enduring them? And if not, how do you retain a sense of value when you have nothing concrete to show for it? Because at the end of yet another failed relationship, when all you have are war wounds and self doubt, you have to wonder, what's it all worth?
Meanwhile, a woman with far fewer financial worries was also contemplating her worth. Charlotte knew the ring didn't mean as much, now that she wasn't with Trey. But on that particularity low Thursday, she put on her 2.17carat diamond and wandered around her 2.17carat Park Avenue apartment.
That night, at Richard's...
Water, water everywhere, and not a drop to drink. This is torture. Why are you doing this to me? I can't buy shoes.
- These are pretty.
Then I'll try these for you. Excuse me, sir, could I try these please, in a 7.5? And these. I guess, just all of these. But, sir, no matter what happens in the next 20 minutes, under no circumstances am I to buy these. I'm just trying them on for fun.
- What is that smell? -
That's just mean. Damn! How'll people know to scatter without a warning?
Really?
No. I am. The lady at the bank said I was an unattractive candidate for a loan. Where did all my money go? I know I've made some.
- Come on.
- Would that be wrong?
- That's only $4,000. -
I spent $40,000 on shoes and I have no place to live? I will literally be the old woman who lived in her shoes.
When a girl gets backed up against a wall she can't afford, she has to consider renting others.
That's the closet? Where do the shoes go?
I'll hang myself on a door if I have to live here. Do I smell curry?
Delia, I ask you, how can this apartment be $2,800 a month? I pay $750 for something that's twice the size. It don't smell like takeout.
Unfortunately, that's really not an option. What other shit holes are you showing me today?
So this is where you work. It’s cute. It’s smaller than I expected. I always imagined rows and rows of blondes in tight sweaters, typing.
I am here in an official capacity. Aren't you going to ask me to sit down?
Faced with the prospect of Weehawken, I decided it was time to call in the big guns.
I once read that you took something like $3 million and leveraged it to build a $100 million building. How did you do that?
I want to buy my apartment but I have no money. I'm worth nothing.
Maybe you should go work at a bank. Aidan and I broke up.
- I got enough troubles.
Apparently, you were right, I am not the marrying kind.
So I need money. You know money. I need to know what you know about money.
Big offered me the money for my down payment. But I could never take it. Could I?
- As a loan. I would pay him back.
- Still no ''love''?
You're about to have a baby. I can't take your money. And furthermore, do you have that much?
- What? Does no one else shoe shop?
Look...that is really...sweet of you two to offer. It’s really sweet. But I'm gonna do this on my own.
So I can't tape it back.
- What does that pay? I can docent.
- I have no fortune. I didn't need a cookie to tell me that.
- These fans only cost $1. I'm going to save a lot of money on air conditioning.
No apartment and no Aidan. It’s been a rough two weeks. Just give me a block. I'm going to be fine.
As I thought about leaving the apartment that I had lived in for the past decade, I realized how much I would miss it. Through everything, it had always been there for me. And suddenly, I was irrationality angry, and I knew just where and who to take it irrationality out on.
- I was just in the neighborhood.
- Why didn't you offer me the money?
- I wouldn't take it.
Because I would have offered it to you. You're my friend.
We're not talking about your father and his friend Paul. We're talking about you and your friend, me. And for the record, I am aware that I have some financial messiness hat I have to clean up, and to that end, I am looking into some freelance magazine work. I have been offered $4 a word at Vogue. That is a lot. Most people get $2. So, yes, I have made some mistakes, and, Charlotte, you have made some mistakes. When you were making those mistakes, I was sitting across from you at the coffee shop, nodding and listening and supporting you. I was not sitting at a Chinese restaurant, turning away when you should have been looking at me. And what kills me is, you don't even have to work. You're volunteering.
- What is that on your finger?
And you're telling me to be more independent?
You're right. It’s your ring, it’s your business. I got all worked up on the walk over here.
No, I took a $5 cab ride, seven blocks. These shoes pinch my feet, but I love them. I am in a financial cul-de-sac. But I'm going to take the bus. I just hope I'm not on it.
Meanwhile, in the lap of luxury…
Samantha could have said, ''I love you. '' But she was afraid it would cost her too much. So she did what she did best.
That night, Steve gave Miranda multiple orgasms for what it's worth.
I'm sorry about the other day. I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings.
- I think you are coping amazingly well. I'm just scared.
- Wow! We're alone again.
- No, I can't. You love this ring.
No, you're right. It would make things too complicated.
- But it would be a loan. I'll pay you back.
- I want you to think really carefully about this.
- Will you be comfortable knowing that it will take me time to pay you back?
I really appreciate this. I'll pay you back. You know that, right?
- I will. Thank you.
Charlotte had taken her painful past and turned it into my hopeful future, and that made the ring priceless.
That's great. Guess what. I got Vogue up to $4.50 a word.
Okay, great. Thank you.
It wasn't quite as easy as clicking my Manolo Blahniks three times, but it was worth it. I was home.
Every morning, millions of New Yorkers leave their crowded apartments and head out to the even more crowded streets, on their way to work. Today, I was one of them. Sometimes, a girl just needs a new start. I had a new do, a new mortgage, and, therefore, a new job. I had just submitted my first freelance article for one of the most relevant and provocative magazines on the newsstands today, at least to me. Vogue. Also known as Mecca, where I belonged.
- You didn't like it?
There it was, the article I'd put my heart and soul into and it was bleeding.
I was trying to find a way to introduce the bags and the bracelets with a little humor. Kind of, ''Men are the new black.'' It was supposed to be funny.
- I didn't really bring a writing implement. Okay. Bags.
An hour later, Enid had to leave for a lunch date, presumably to devour another writer.
Martinis in the morning, is this allowed? Is it Vogue?
Look at this mess. Why was I even hired?
I guess you thought wrong.
- Cheers! One and a half martinis later...
- And the sad thing is, this is what I do best. I mean, look at it.
Yeah. Cookie's drunk. I'm drunk at Vogue.
I didn't eat breakfast and I'm a size two, which should make me perfect for Vogue, but nope, I'm drunk and a failure at Vogue.
Julian, I came in here today so cocky. I thought I knew it All. I had my men jokes and my purse puns. You heard her. What do I know about purses? Nothing. What do I know about men? Oops! I spilled. I spilled at Vogue.
- I can't go out there. I'm drunk. I'm drunk at Vogue.
- Please tell me that wasn't Anna Win tour.
- Right. So sorry. That night, at a more appropriate Cocktail hour,..
What are you gonna get him next year? A four way?
- Happy birthday to you.
Three ways, apparently, or a Marc Jacobs ultramod little notebook. Evidently, I'm recommending it to Vogue shoppers.
- Was it you and Trey?
Like what? Jujitsu and off-track betting?
- I don't have a Vogue idea, so hello.
I don't ooh and aah, and I don't care who's having a baby.
Without going to Crib World.
- Let's just stick to the registry three-way.
The next day, Charlotte decided if she was going to host a baby shower, she should hide the evidence that she had wanted one of her own.
Later that week, I had a meal with the perfect dinner accessory, Julian.
So you got married right out of grade school.
I just broke up with somebody. And yes, it was a great love. But he went there. I went there.
- So, Julian the reason that I asked you to dinner tonight…
Besides that. I wanted to tell you that I really appreciate your interest in my article, but I've decided not to finish it.
Technically, I'm not one of your kids. I'm just a girl you get drunk sometimes.
My father wouldn't have a whole lot to say about quitting. He quit my mother and me when I was little.
- Thanks. I mean a long time ago. I was 5.
- No idea, never said. And that's the name of that tune. What?
Yes.
Julian.
- Why are you being so sweet?
Later that night, I got to thinking about fathers, or the lack of them. Some say a daughter's relationship with her father is the model for all her subsequent relationships with men. Is that just pop psychology, or is there some truth to it? And if you were given a less-than-perfect model, does it mean a life of less-than-perfect relationships? I couldn’t help but wonder, how much does a father figure figure?
The next day, Samantha made a conference call of her own.
And now that Charlotte's house was ready for the baby shower, she wanted to make sure Miranda's house was ready for the baby.
I really didn't have a choice. You couldn't make it up the stairs. There, you feel better?
- Miranda.
- What?
You wanna quit? Come on, I'll quit the magazine. You quit the baby. We'll be two quitters. We'll live happily ever after.
- You're not really pregnant? It’s water weight?
Get off my stoop!
- He has a father figure.
- I meant you.
- Yeah.
- Second date, dinner and a movie.
Hey Do you think it really can be as simple as, ''My father walked out, therefore I'll always be messed up about men?''
So it's a crapshoot.
I R.S.V.P.'d to a duck with a cigar.
- You're going.
- Wait, let me get you a forklift. When you're ready.
- Go.
- You did good.
The next day, Miranda decided not to duck her own shower.
Why are you opening the door? Shouldn't you to be sitting on a lily pad being worshipped?
- It’s a four tiered baby cake made entirely of diapers.
- We ordered it online
We're not taking it back. We've already been seen carrying it down Park Avenue. Definitely not Vogue.
I told you we should've gotten the massage certificate.
One hour, two platters of chicken, and 13 lawyers later, all talk had turned to babies. Almost all.
That’s good to know. Because in a three-way situation, it could come to that.
- Those Trix aren't for kids.
- Exactly.
- So it's more of an illegal sublet type thing?
- Wow!
- Miranda!
- Nothing.
And just like that, Miranda realized she might be a good mother figure, as well.
Hello. Somebody better go check on Mommy in the guest bath, 'cause little bits here has wet himself, and myself, I might add.
- Good.
That night, at the birthday three-way, Samantha made sure it happened her way.
The one thing Richard didn't want for his birthday was to feel older.
It was time for the fledging to leave the love nest.
By giving Richard what he thought he wanted, Samantha finally got what she needed, monogamy.
The Following night, with a little after-hours help from my favorite editor, I finished the impossible, my first Vogue piece.
And now, my favorite part of the writing process...print.
It’s a literary Where's Waldo?
By buying shoes and purses.
Oh, my God! It’s too good! I'm sorry, but it's... it's too good!
- This is too much! How can this be?
- Oh, my God!
Do you know what these are?
Manolo Blahnik Mary Janes. I thought these were an urban shoe myth.
Okay. Oh, my God! These are authentic patent leather. And if they don't fit, so help me, I'm gonna wear them anyway. Crap. They almost fit.
- Okay. all right!
- Oh, my... What are you doing?
- Well, don't. Julian, pull your pants up.
Stop. What happened to your wife, the dancer?
- What?
- You're old enough to be my father.
Pull your pants up, now.
I do right now.
Okay, don't ''cookie'' me, Freud. Pants up! Show some respect. This is Vogue!
It turns out Julian had an agenda, as well. But it was cleverly hidden, of course.
From then on, once a month, when I went to Vogue, I thought it best to work exclusively with Enid.
Enid, With all due respect, men, I may not know, but shoes... shoes, I know.
- I'm walking, too. I admit it's tempting to wish for the perfect boss or the perfect parent, or the perfect outfit. But maybe the best any of us can do is not quit. Play the hand we've been given, and accessorize the outfit we've got.
There is a time of year in New York when, even before the first leaf falls you can feel the seasons click.
The air is crisp, the summer is gone.
And for the first night in a long time you need a blanket on your bed.
It brings up other needs as well.
- What are you doing?
- Who do you think it is?
She's dead.
It's fall.
Uh-uh.
Are you still smoking?
Are you alone?
I can't sleep.
I'm feeling a little lonely. Do you ever feel lonely?
- Can I come over?
To be clear it's just to keep each other company.
Get it while it's hot!
All your furniture's gone.
Leaving New York?
You are not moving.
Napa as in California?
Take this pizza, and put it someplace.
Wait. You're moving? Moving when?
And if I hadn't happened to call tonight you were just going to quietly go away without telling me?
From where? A wine vat somewhere? You can't leave New York.
You're the Chrysler Building.
The Chrysler Building would be all wrong in a vineyard.
But why?
If you're tired, you take a nap-a.
You don't move to Napa.
I need a cocktail.
And downtown, another woman was feeling deserted.
It was the closest Samantha had come to giving her heart to a man in a long time.
You kept nothing to sit on, but you have your records and a turntable?
Blood, Sweat and Tears? Wow! Shouldn't this be in a museum?
Henry Mancini.
Exactly how old are you?
- Thank you.
Easy, pops! Just give me the record.
I've been thinking.
You can't slink out of town this way.
We have to do it up right.
A proper good-bye.
You, me, New York.
You owe it to us.
And by "us," I mean New York and myself.
- In that case, I hate it.
You can't be serious.
- So corny!
Thank you for the company.
No.
I'll see you Sunday night.
Don't disappoint us.
That pizza will be fantastic for breakfast.
The next morning, I broke the Big news.
Going, going, gone.
It's the end of an era.
- No. He said he'd call, but what if he didn't?
Okay, now the tough question.
- Exactly.
Going-out-of-business sex.
What do we think?
- Okay, Quick Draw.
Give it a second here.
- We like each other.
We respect each other.
It could be nice romantic.
It wouldn't be bad.
I'm just saying.
Aren't you afraid that the sheer force of it all will just pull you back into all that Big stuff again?
- No. He's not Niagara Falls.
I love you, sweetie, but you're not giving me credit. This is not two years ago.
Things have changed.
I'm different now.
Big and I are different.
I feel safe around him.
He's like this great man in my life, and he's leaving.
I think they're the same people who leave New York.
You always thought what, never mind?
I don't know. They made mistakes, but
This is all very informative.
Thanks for the sound advice, Mommy Biggest.
Later that night, I got to thinking about fate that crazy concept that we're not really responsible for the course our lives take.
That it's all pre-destined, written in the stars.
Maybe that explains why, if you live in a city where you can't even see the stars your love life tends to feel a little more random.
And even if our every man, every kiss, every heartache is pre-ordered from some cosmic catalog can we still take a wrong step and wander off our own personal Milky Way? I couldn't help but wonder can you make a mistake and miss your fate?
Charlotte's fate led her to the Museum of Modern Art.
And speaking of overwhelming exes there was Charlotte's, with his mother, Bunny.
In order to avoid her ex, Charlotte ran all the way into the Expressionist era.
And up on the Upper West Side, two other exes were dealing with A, B and Cs.
Samantha, a stranger to love, didn't do it very well.
You're not cheating on him.
Miracles happen.
- Oh, Jesus!
The Raquel Welch wig line?
And why would you be doing this?
Samantha, if you love him don't you think there's even the slightest chance that he might really love you, too?
I do not have bail money, just so you know.
Hello, lover! I am needing those for my last Big night on the town.
Drinks, dinner, dancing. Very old New York.
Please. I'm just getting around to picking the shoes.
And after dinner, Charlotte invited Eric home for coffee and The "and" being, I'm-determined-to-move-on-from-my-ex sex.
Contrary to popular opinion I have decided to give myself permission to sleep with Big if it feels right.
So put that in your pipe and smoke it.
Can I get that in writing? It had better stop raining before tonight.
I have the most amazing shoes, and water will just not do.
What? Are you having a baby or something?
- You okay?
Okay, but I'm there purely for decoration.
I'm not cutting any umbilical anything.
That night, after the rain, after the dinner, after the dancing I took Big for a ride.
- Nope.
Classic.
What are you going to do out there in Napa, besides watch grapes shrivel?
I give it a week.
New York. New York.
Aren't you going to miss it?
I don't own a cell phone.
Oh, Jesus, that is me! Miranda gave me one, because, you know How the hell does this thing Thank you.
Miranda?
Okay, is Steve with you?
- Are you okay?
Miranda's in labor.
I have to get out of here, to Mount Sinai.
One short carriage ride later So, you leave tomorrow at 5:00?
How about lunch? I'll come over around 2:00?
- Thanks for the ride, Prince Charming.
Boy, you will do anything to stop me from having sex with Big.
- So do you.
Shouldn't you be lying down, or biting on a leather strap or something?
So, what can I do?
And thus, with a destroyed pair of Christian Louboutins began Miranda's delivery.
And it would continue well into lunch hour the next day.
There she was, Miss Sassy-in-her-shag trying to catch Richard with his lunchtime shag.
One cab ride, and a breaking-and-entering later Samantha found herself at Richard's bedroom door.
Turns out she was right about Wright.
But now she wished she was wrong.
Turns out the baby was almost as stubborn as Miranda.
Nurse, don't say that.
Nurse.
- That feels good.
- You did it.
And just like that, life comes in and things begin to change.
Steve.
That's a fabulous hat.
- Hi!
He's really teeny, and he has red hair.
Listen, I have to go. I still have a chance to catch Big.
Oh, Jesus! Here comes Raquel Welch.
I'm late.
She'll tell you.
No.
It's not even 5:00.
What is this? "If I ever feel lonely" It was official.
A new season had begun.
Maybe our mistakes are what make our fate.
Without them, what would shape our lives? Perhaps, if we never veered off-course we wouldn't fall in love, or have babies, or be who we are.
After all, seasons change.
So do cities.
People come into your life and people go.
But it's comforting to know the ones you love are always in your heart and, if you're very lucky a plane ride away.
When you are single in New York, there is no end to ways to fill your days.
Museums, parks, theatres, concert halls, nightclubs and countless restaurants.
But one of the most amazing things about living in New York is that any night, you can go to Paris.
"Joy For Two" for one.
Thank you.
It was one of those perfect New York nights.
Followed by a less than perfect New York day.
- Your purse just spit up.
Call it another woman's sushi.
went a movie
myself
are we stil gonna have to call it "date night in our fifties?
You're never alone in new york it's the perfect place to be single
The city is your date.
about 18 years
It's getting serious.
I think I'm in love.
Everyone who? Where did you get that?
Yeah and that phrase "great love" what does that even mean?
Way to take the edge off a club sandwich.
How many have you had?
- Really? What about Steve?
refuse to define love in those limited terms
One, two.
According to you, I'm done.
No, it's too late for that.
You said it.
It's over for me.
Here lies Carrie.
She had two loves and lots of shoes.
After a light lunch, Miranda stopped to set down a heavy load.
Oh, wow! We have just spotted our first sailors.
Fleet Week has begun.
Fleet Week is that one week a year when the US Naval ships dock, and our fair city is made even fairer with cute, sweet, American sailors looking for fun.
The antidote to Valentine's Day.
- Hold on, Pearl Harbor.
Not interested.
Me, Running through Times Square in heels trying to find a sailor to kiss?
That ship has sailed, pun intended.
If you want to do your patriotic duty as New York women, you will come shopping and throw some much needed money downtown.
- I'll call you later? -
- Bye-bye.
I'll call you later.
Miranda suddenly found herself moving slowly away from her old life.
And quickly into her new one.
Charlotte realised she may have put great love number one behind her, but his name was still in front of her.
Break-ups.
Bad for the heart, good for the economy.
Right sentiment.
Wrong restaurant.
I have always wanted to do that, but I don't think I could.
- How did it feel? -
- So, he's "manthrax"?
I wonder what he was gonna say.
People make mistakes.
I cheated on Aidan.
He gave me a second chance.
Look how that turned out.
- True.
It wasn't a sushi situation.
You're overreacting.
Brady won't happen every day.
- Miranda's still Miranda.
She had a baby, not a loboTomy.
She knows you're not child-friendly.
Later that night, I got to thinking about days gone by.
That carefree time when our schedules were as open as our hearts.
The time before the baggage and babies began to weigh us down.
I couldn't help wonder, does that sense of adventure still flicker inside us? Or when it comes to being carefree single girls, have we missed the boat?
Surprise! Pain au chocolat.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I don't know you.
I'm Carrie.
- Does she speak?
No, I had the day free and thought I'd stop by for a chatty.
- Are you hungry? I brought some pain au chocolat.
- Perhaps he's anorexic.
- It's a dumb joke.
Anorexic.
Well, I've been thinking about that thing that Charlotte said in the coffee shop.
So maybe Aidan and Big are my two great loves, now.
But that doesn't mean that that I'm always gonna feel - that way about them.
There, in the middle of my two great loves, were Miranda's two great breasts.
Your breasts are huge!
- He'll eat eventually.
Sweetie, they're looking right at me.
- I'm just talking.
It's just words.
We're not going anywhere.
Things will have to change a little.
- I know.
But you're still one of us.
Only now, you're the one with the biggest boobs.
Please, I was not at all prepared. I'm gonna have to find some trauma counselling.
OK.
I'm gonna go.
Let you concentrate on Mr Hobbes.
Miranda, you're a mother.
- But it's OK.
I won't tell anyone.
Well, first a trip to the Guggenheim and then lunch and then
- Who knows? It's New York.
exactly see that? You listened and we had the witty repartee.
Bye.
That same afternoon, Charlotte felt like going to a movie.
She called her afternoon movie friend, Anthony.
As Charlotte and Anthony made a left, Samantha found herself in the right neighbourhood, Richard's.
New York weather, like a man, can be unpredictable.
But that's part of the fun.
And a New York museum, like a man, can sometimes be closed when you wish they were open.
That's another reason I love New York.
Just like that, it can go from bad to cute.
Well, I guess we're not going anywhere for a while.
I love the way the rain smells.
If this were a French movie, we'd fall in love and get married.
No, I was just pointing out how romantic this would be in a movie.
I don't want to marry you.
OK, I do! Come on.
I'm kidding.
We just met.
Let's wait five minutes.
I don't want to get married.
I was engaged last year, and if I didn't want to marry him
- I was hoping to get a table Singles, counter.
OK, thank you.
Several blocks later, I decided to warm up with a bowl of matzo ball soup.
No, can't say that I have.
I'm not on one.
If Charlotte was right, this woman's two great loves were a man named Morty and lithium-laced ice cream.
After 20 minutes squatting under the coffee shop hand dryer, I realised I'd been kidding myself.
New York and I didn't have the perfect relationship.
All right! It was dismissive, abusive, and it made me feel desperate.
I was now fresh out of great loves.
Hey, sir! Thank you.
I don't know why I was fighting it.
This will be fun!
oh no You don't get that info without dinner and a drink.
- She almost got me on that one.
- What about the great loves?
- We'll find him.
The important thing is to stick together or we'll get lost.
Samantha! Charlotte!
And uptown, another woman found herself in a confusing navel situation.
20 freaked out minutes later
He may not be a core shaker, but Steve was there when she was shaken to the core.
My girlfriends.
This party's like the Bermuda Triangle for women.
- That's a little sailor joke.
- Bye-bye.
Meanwhile, I had not found Charlotte, but Charlotte had found an officer who wasn't a gentleman.
The old Charlotte would've had him court-martialled, but the new one
- had a deadline.
- Jesus!
I didn't
- I'll see you later.
Let's just talk.
Charlotte was caught somewhere between the old and new York.
She figured showing her boob to a stranger bought her three months.
Believe it or not, she's involved in a peep show upstairs.
What is it about today? I've seen Miranda's boobs, Charlotte's boob.
Why not show me yours and get it over with? I was kidding.
Yeah, Tailhook you one.
I'm going.
yes! I was right.
This ship has sailed and tragically, I'm still on it.
Good night.
Hey, keep an eye on Boom Boom up there.
- Yes.
I came, I saw, I'm leaving.
Even though she was floating in a sea of dickies-
Samantha could only think about Richard.
Say, Louis from Louisiana, how many great loves do you think you get in a lifetime?
That is the question on deck.
Well, I'm glad I stayed.
After this city kicked my ass today, I needed that dance.
Thanks.
Goodnight.
- It isn't so bad.
If Louis was right, and you only get one great love, New York may just be mine.
I can't have nobody talking shit about my boyfriend.
A short while later, I had a thought.
Maybe the past is like an anchor holding us back.
Maybe you have to let go of who you were to become who you will be.
The worst thing about not being in a relationship is when your job is to write about being in a relationship.
Remember that guy who wore sandals, Randal the sandal guy? We had a couple of dates.
Yeah, Is that anything?
No but I'm scraping the botTom of the barrel. last week I wrote about my search for the perfect French fry.
You didn't read it, did you?
OK, then.
Wow! Even my friends - find me irrelevant.
I'm in a dating desert.
They'll have to change my column to " And The City".
Or they'll cancel it.
Why did my editor call? He never calls.
I'm not getting laid.
There for I'm getting laid off.
I don't know if you read the rest of the paper, but people with real jobs are getting laid off.
This is not a good economy in which to be whipped cream.
Last night I started writing about my sock drawer.
Men as socks.
There are men! You have to know where to look for them. When are you free? I
I'm not trawling for men to have something to write.
Go have sex.
Report back.
I'll have fries.
Maybe I'll make it a two-parter.
Wow Maybe there are no men.
okay That coming from you is almost as disturbing as the news itself.
- You'll have to be there so he doesn't get scared again.
- Do not resuscitate.
Into it
That's your choice and we should all respect it.
Now, How about this for a column? "Desperate Women Who Will Believe Anything".
The next day, two parents covered outlets to prevent their baby from getting shocked.
For grown-ups, there is no such safeguard.
Miranda didn't believe in hell, except the hell she was in right now.
Downtown, Samantha's faith was faltering.
Now it was Samantha's turn to be scared.
There it was.
A canary diamond, "I'll try not to cheat and eat when I'm scared" ring.
Samantha wasn't sure if she was in heaven or limbo.
Meanwhile, I was clearly in hell.
That afternoon, Charlotte and I went trawling for men.
- We were playing 1/100.
It's like a road trip game for urban singles.
Watch the men coming your direction, and see how many out of 100 you'd sleep with.
- Zero, 32.
I don't like dachshunds for men.
Can't handle a real dog, - can't handle a real woman.
Men who are too good-looking are never good in bed, because they never had to be.
- Zero, 35.
They were gay.
- You're an imaginary whore.
You have slept with eight men and we have only had appetizers.
- Why would I go to that?
That's why I wouldn't go.
It's kind of a catch-22, isn't it?
- Sign me up.
- You have some negative thoughts.
This is my editor.
- This is Gabe Manning.
I know.
But I am just now researching my next column.
I think it's going to be super fun and sexy.
We sit here and pick how many men out of 100 we would sleep with.
- No, we don't actually
oh
oh!
Have you considered writing about that? Great idea.
Let me get a pen.
The next night, I met publishing powerhouses Lily Martin and Courtney Masterson.
I don't even do that.
And that's Why?
Some we don't have to include.
That one on French fries didn't make the fridge, did it?
So you mean What do you mean?
Just here are my favourite columns?
No, Yes, Hopeful
To be honest, I wasn't sure what I believed.
But my cynical side suspected optimism would sell more books.
I enjoy being under the radar.
I take comfort in the fact that many people, present company included, don't see my column.
Like my mistakes.
Is this something you encourage?
I'm not sure what you just said because I was blinded by a piece of jewellery.
Let me see that!
Wow What do you get if it happens again, the Hope diamond? That's what this is.
evidently- We were both turning our pain into gold.
That night, I started to think about belief.
Maybe it's not advisable to be an optimist after the age of 30.
Maybe pessimism is something we have to apply daily, like moisturiser.
Otherwise, how do you bounce back when reality batters your belief system and love does not, as promised, conquer all.
Is hope a drug we need to go off of, or is it keeping us alive? What's the harm in believing? Repeat your affirmations daily if you want to let love into your life.
Miranda wasn't a believer, but her faith was renewed when she found a church that seemed to suit her and a suit that seemed to fit her.
Miranda was surprised the priest was so flexible, but in troubled times, the Catholic Church is like a desperate, willing to settle for anything it can get.
This is not what I had in mind when you asked to go dress shopping.
Baby's first drag show.
- It's a very odd tradition.
- You're a pessimist, right?
It's for my book
I have to figure out if I'm an optimist or a pessimist.
I don't know any more.
I don't know what I believe.
- How do you rationalise that?
- What's she like?
- Yikes!
Really? What would I need to do?
I don't know spiritual guidance?
- The sugary kind with the thick icing?
Oh, now you're talking.
Spirituality and cake.
That night, Charlotte dragged me to the fountain of belief.
It was mostly women.
Apparently, women are the main market for hope.
Saying no would get us off on the wrong foot.
"I believe this is hooey.
No, I'm not that quick.
- Oh, the usual.
Helped pick a christening gown for my friend's illegitimate baby.
- She asked me to be the godmother.
It's not a big deal
- It is a big deal!
Why are you so?
- Did you want to be the godmother?
- I do
- We're not?
Are we talking yet? Let me know when we're talking.
I believe this is going to be a very long evening.
I believe we are the only normal people here.
I believe in the good in Charlotte, who dragged me here against my will when I wanted to stay home and just be negative.
Although he appeared to have reformed, Samantha wasn't ready to forgive his sin.
Meanwhile, an hour and 20 affirmations later
Oh, no
Oh No, she's out there.
Believe me.
She's out there.
Sunday afternoon, we gathered for a baptism in the little church that would.
oh, uh huh
- Hey.
- OK.
- I didn't want Brady to show me up.
I think your baby's godfather baptised himself with some bad cologne.
I know your hands are full with the drunk and the skunk.
- I have to tell you something.
No, oh no, you look beautiful.
It's me.
Are you sure that I am godmother material? Shouldn't you pick someone a bit more maternal?
Well, here's the thing.
This is an awesome responsibility.
I don't know my own view of the future.
I'm possibly one bad date away from bitter.
Don't you think I'm getting a little cynical?
Charlotte's dying for the job, and I think she'd be better at it.
Well, I did spring for the hat.
I hoped the water would wash away some of my original cynicism.
That night, I dedicated my baby - my book - to hopeful single women everywhere, and one in particular my good friend Charlotte, the eternal optimist, who always believes in love.
When venturing out on your first blind date in a decade, it's crucial to have the right attitude.
Hope for the best.
Ted?
Prepare for the worst and who knows, you might be pleasantly surprised.
Or not.
I got stood up.
Yes, deigned to go on a blind date against my better judgment.
I was willing to lower myself into the gutter.
- He doesn't show.
Either he didn't show or took one look at me and ran.
Which is worse? I can't decide.
A stranger hurt my feelings.
That's scraping botTom.
- Stop.
Even if he had shown, first dates are like interviews with cocktails.
I'm done.
Why should I risk having a god-awful evening, when I am guaranteed to have fun with you guys?
I came out, I saw my shadow.
I'm going back in.
See you next winter.
Oh! That's right.
Must not wind up old maid.
How will I remember that?
Does anybody have a pen?
The end.
New topic.
Charlotte's 36th birthday is Saturday night.
I say we spinsters take back Manhattan.
No
Where are we celebrating Charlotte's 35th birthday, the sequel?
You're like Nobu.
The four of us can't get together for Charlotte's 30-faux birthday?
This is bullshit! Two nights later, with no friends, no dates, not even any good bad TV to watch This is bullshit.
OK, this is my third and final phone call.
Miranda thinks she can get Steve to watch the baby.
Charlotte agreed as long as we don't mention her birthday or 36.
I'm still a little fuzzy on the rules.
Can't you get out of Atlantic City?
- Please do.
I am looking at the last picture taken of us and it is mouldy.
Miranda is wearing a blouse with shoulder pads.
- Yes! That Friday, I picked up my fellow jet-setter on the way to the airport.
Under the boardwalk We'll be having What?
- What?
Don't do that to me! I'm a 36-year-old woman! Come on in.
- OK.
Oh, man Hi, Magda.
How are you?
As I live and breathe, Ms Hobbes, I never thought I'd see the day.
Atlantic City is the capital of stretchy pants.
They're mandatory.
Let's go.
Let's go.
The four of us are going to Atlantic City.
"Knit one, purl two" would never sound the same to Charlotte again.
- Excuse me.
- Magda has offered to help Steve.
Throw some money at the problem.
Let's hit the road.
This is pleasant.
I think we're on the old lady express.
- Where are all the old men?
Will we still be friends when we're this old?
- What do you mean, "sure"? I could barely get us together for the weekend and we're all mobile.
Hey "New Yorker", I'm talking to you.
How are we gonna make it to 70 if you've already zoned me out?
Friendships don't magically last It's like savings.
You don't expect to wake up when you're old and find a big bucket of money.
- No.
My point is, we need an emotional retirement plan.
This is important, making time for each other and taking trips like this.
As we can see, at the end of the line, it's gonna be us ladies riding a bus.
Two "New Yorker" magazines and two knit booties later, we all arrived at the understated Taj Mahal casino.
Here it is, ladies.
Atlantic City.
Breathe deep and take it all in.
Oh, God.
I've missed this.
Oh, yeah.
- I'm referring to the smoke.
Not so fast.
We'll take care of that later.
Right now, I'm taking my ladies to dinner.
That's right, it's on me.
Steak, you got it.
Lobster, coming right up.
Nothing is too fancy for my Atlantic City ladies.
We have got to get a picture here.This place is fantastic
It's so delirious.
You're on vacation.
I remember her looking a lot older.
She looks about our age now.
You flatterer.
Cleavage is big here.
It's part of the regional charm.
I propose a toast.
To the four of us.
No.
It was supposed to be the four of us.
Now one of us has a puss on.
Thanks.
OK, you won.
Let's go find Samantha.
- That's why you should leave now.
- They're free.
- I don't know how to play.
- Oh.
- I can't accept this.
- It's $1,000.
- Did you hear that?
-1000
That would not make me happy.
What would make us happy is to see ZZ Top in the Magic Carpet Room.
What? A minute ago you were bouncing off the walls.
- What? You You can't go to sleep.
In five minutes Charlotte turns 35 again.
People go to casinos for the same reason they go on blind dates hoping to hit the jackpot.But mostly, you wind up broke or alone in a bar.
If we know the house always wins, why gamble? Next morning, Richard and Samantha awoke in the Kublai Khan suite.
Apparently, there were no old maids at the Taj Mahal.
Samantha had the distinct feeling she was being Kublai conned.
Meanwhile, Charlotte's encore There she was, an old maid.
And it wasn't funny.
Three hours later, I was waiting for our foursome to come together.
- You're quite the spinster.
- Is he breathing?
There she was.
Miss Atlantic Slutty.
- No, but I think "Harlot" is.
Those are for women who have lost their money and have to turn tricks.
- What you doing down there?
- You bet it all?
- Who, me?
- Haven't we lost enough? -
It's OK, we're leaving.
Would you mind taking our picture first?
- What did you just say to her?
No! It is most certainly not OK!
You having triplets? Come on, let's go.
The Lennox Lewis match sold out that night, but our heavyweight fight caused a bigger stir.
They're just idiots.
Don't go.
Stay.
You can have my chip.
- Should I talk to her?
Under other circumstances, running stairs in a pearl thong would have been Samantha's idea of a good time.
By the eighth floor, somewhere between pissed off and getting off, she had to take it off.
And there, high above the casino, Samantha pulled her highest bet, her heart, off the table.
Just when Samantha thought she might have folded too soon
One drink here, then we should see the boardwalk before it's dark.
No, we're fine.
- Oh, now it's your birthday.
- Yeah.
Can you just wait one second?
What is the point of this?
Can I have a word with you, alone?
- I didn't leave Manhattan to double-date two guys we'll never see again.
I don't want to.
I would rather have a real conversation with you.
Well, problem solved.
out of the dark and into the light.
Isn't this amazing? It's like a postcard from the '20s.
- I can't believe you're still upset.
What role did you think they were going to play in our lives?
- Come on.
Look at the odds.
How many guys do we ever hit it off with?
Very few, and even if we do, those relationships don't last.
Even if they did, men die first.
We're back where we started.
I say we skip all the drama and enjoy each other's company now.
That sounds wonderful, but don't bank on it happening.
You must be getting cold.
I'll meet you back at the hotel.
I'm going to get some saltwater taffy.
- I'm dying for it.
By my fifth piece of peppermint taffy, I realised maybe I wasn't banking on my friends.
I was hiding in them.
Then again, maybe there are some things worth gambling on.
Back inside, I had a thought.
To hit the jackpot in the future, you might have to bet on where you are in the present.
What happens after 36?
You told me to.
I thought we were taking the jet.
You couldn't have broken up Tomorrow?
- I'm in.
Oh, wait!
Excuse me.
Would you mind taking our picture?
Turns out, it was.
it is said that it takes a lifetime to figure out who you are.
People in publishing move a tad faster.
No! I'm sorry.
That just came out.
I get it.
But no matter how fast-paced the city, I always manage to get my clothes on before I leave the apartment.
Courtney, here's what concerns me.
That cover is all about sex.
- Yes My columns are about relationships.
When I write about sex, it's just words.
Reading about sex is different than seeing it in front of you naked on 6th Avenue hailing a cab.
- OK.
No.
OK Let me see it again.
Absolutely not.
I would sooner die.
The next day, our talk turned from bachelors, baby bottles and Balenciaga blouses to books.
Bad, worse, loser disaster.
And you know the scary thing? I'm being kind.
But if I get the wrong book cover, I'm a fabulous target.
People are mean.
- I have officially entered panic.
Like a writer who happened to have wound up on her book cover looking smart, sexy and properly airbrushed.
- Next Thursday, but I can't afford you.
OK, I'll talk to my people.
There it was.
The self hell aisle.
As Charlotte looked at the titles: "The Women's Comfort Book", "The Path To Love", "Excuse Me, Your Life Is Waiting", "Please Understand Me ll", she couldn't bear the thought that she belonged there.
- I'm a dead woman.
Who needs the self help aisle when you can self help yourself to amazon.com and get exactly what you need, overnight express and shame free.
At exactly 12:15, I stopped by to pick up Samantha for our business lunch to decide what we thought was sexy.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Some women, like Samantha, know when to stop putting things in their mouths, while others, like Miranda, need a little help.
Later that same day, Stanford came over for a fag and some flipping.
Finish that and get over here and start on "Vogue".
Tear out any outfit that might work for me.
Something that won't be too pathetic if I wind up in the half-off bin.
Well, you look very something.
- What's going on, Ms Blatch?
- Oh, my God.
Really? That's fantastic!
- Is he a Roman?
Too bad.
I adore a metal breastplate on a man.
What does he do? OK.
- Do I judge? -
- I'll be kind.
I feel as though my hands are tied.
- Where did you meet?
You met a man who played coffee waiting to get coffee?
- What is that, a new zodiac sign?
- Hello.
I'm sending you the X-ray bill for my elbow.
no
- I am lightened up.
Did you tell them what we're looking for?
- When are you meeting them?
- Maybe I should join you.
But I have some ideas.
- Yeah, why wouldn't I?
- It's great.
I'll ask Stanford to come.
No, but he's gay and bitchy.
My target test audience.
- You OK?
- OK.
Look at some outfits for the cover.
- Saturday.
You're not gonna turn into one of those couples, are you?
I think it's pretty much agreed that it goes open-minded: good, judgmental: bad. But are we being too quick to judge judgment? Perhaps judgment is not so much a snap decision as an early warning and detection device.
If it is instantly clear that a person, place or profession is not for you, is it better to ignore your better judgment and read between the lines or should you judge a book by its cover? You've got mail.
" The selected list included "Lonely Women No Men", "Love Hurts.
You Don't Have To", "I'm Fine Now" and "Reservations for One".
Charlotte refused to see herself as one of those women.
It fell eight flights and landed at the feet of a woman contemplating divorce.
She considered it a sign from God.
After three Weight Watchers meetings, where they did nothing but talk about eating, Miranda Baby Weight and Tom Big Boned went someplace to eat.
- I know how we can burn this off.
Weight Watchers turned out to be a lot more enjoyable than Miranda expected.
- No.
no
I saw that coming.
- You're awfully quiet.
Miranda went out with an overeater and he overate her.
No, she signs the delivery slip and sends him on his way.
- That was her and not me.
- When did I say I had a problem?
What was I supposed to do? Flip through "Marie Claire"?
- Your Worldwide Express guy?
- No.
They wanted me buck-naked waiting for the M11 bus.
We said sexy chic.
Who is this stylist, Frederick's of Hollywood?
I can't wear this.
I'm gonna look like an extra from "Moulin Rouge".
Don't say scoot.
Nice to meet you.
I don't usually dress like a high-class hooker.
- Please, this screams hooker.
What respectable New York woman would be caught dead wearing this? I
Could you wait outside? We're having trouble deciding on my outfit.
Isn't this the worst possible outfit for my cover?
Can you wait outside for a second?
great
Samantha, I really appreciate the help.
You and I have different ideas about what's sexy.
what
This isn't about the blow job.
This is about the book cover.
I don't feel comfortable on a shelf next to a biography of Eleanor Roosevelt - with my breasts hanging out.
Not lately.
You know why? It's time for ladies my age to cover it up.
We can't get away with what we used to.
- Jesus! Again with the blow jobs.
- What is your problem?
You do.
I have marabou-covered breasts.
That is my only problem.
- What look?
That was shock.
I thought we were having lunch.
No judgment.
I do have a question.
Will this relationship be priority overnight or next day delivery? Oh, come on.
Lighten up, remember?
You wouldn't because that is something I would never do.
Where are you going?
That night, Miranda had gone from facing her weight at Weight Watchers to waiting for her Weight Watcher's face.
The bad news was that from then on, Miranda had to go downtown to the notorious Weight Watchers next to the Krispy Kreme, where she wouldn't bump into Tom.
- Is she in?
Is she alone?
Knock knock.
See? Live it.
Learn it.
That's all I get for a tailor-made knock knock joke? That's better.
So Two days, four calls, no answer.
If we don't want to talk on the phone again.
That's an interesting choice of words.
Look - I'm sorry.
Sweetie, as lovely as that idea sounds, we're not perfect.
Make no mistake.
It's not my personal style.
But I admire your ability to put your sex life out there.
So I brought some looks for my cover.
- I want your opinion.
Yeah.
Well, just in there.
I did judge you.
Just a little.
And I feel bad.
You were so good to me during the whole Big married man affair.
Just like that, I realised what was under Samantha's fabulous cover.
I had no idea what that must have been like for you.
- Yeah.
He told me.
Just the jacket and legs.
With a sexy pair of shoes Stanford was getting a blow job? I thought he would be - Never mind.
Too judgmental.
- What? Sometimes it takes a friend to make a picture perfect.
But a picture-perfect friendship? That's just in books.
There is one day, even the most cynical New York woman dreams of all her life.
She imagines what she'll wear, the photographers, the toasts. Everybody's celebrating the fact that she finally found a publisher. It's her book-release party.
- It's huge.
- Who's coming? -
- Okay, this is cuckoo.
When your career is going better than ever, it's hard not to get a big head.
Meanwhile, Miranda was back at the office and she was politically incorrectly happy to be there.
Miranda and Walker had shared one night of great sex B.C. Before Child.
She invited him to be her plus one at the book party since she knew she'd be conveniently minus one. Magda had already agreed to babysit.
Meanwhile, Charlotte was working on her perfect plus one: Justin Anderson III.
I was in a new relationship, too, with my publisher.
So, it's not about selling books. It's about finding you a boyfriend.
- Please.
- No.
And your name is Berger?
What's your book?
- Next to the incense.
Minutes later, Jack Berger and I slowed down for a little fast food.
- Yes, I see that.
The woman is tripping over the term "repressed."
- I think it fits.
- You're saying "crotch" to me? We just met.
- Not as funny.
It's very tasty, thank you.
You have so much to learn about women.
I don't know. What else is on your agenda?
No. It would be weird for you to send me.
We were having one of those great first dates you can only have when it's not an actual date.
Thank you.
- What's that?
- Really? I never noticed.
- Yes, it is. Berger.
Would you, by any chance, want to be my plus one on Thursday? It's my book party, and I don't have a date... and you'll have the clean shirt and all.
It was like a bomb that just kept exploding: "I have a girlfriend. We live together. This whole flirtation's in your head."
Thing is, I don't think he is. I sparked with this person. I never spark. I wonder how happy they are. This is not a good side of me. Seriously, what's the point of meeting someone like that if they're not available?
I can't remember, which is what happens when I really like someone. I just remember a feeling. Or he was a dating mirage. I was so hungry for a spark, I hallucinated a man.
- I think I'd rather just crawl into bed.
- And I'll be without a plus one.
He should have said "we" something. "We go to this dry cleaners." "We might be breaking up soon."
You have to tell him.
Thanks for bringing that up again.
In New York, they say you're always looking for a job, a boyfriend, or an apartment. So, let's say you have two out of three, and they're fabulous. Why do we let the one thing we don't have affect how we feel about all the things we do have? Why does one minus a plus one feel like it adds up to zero?
Samantha didn't need a man to make her feel positive, but she did need a man to inject her forehead every so often.
Like most high-powered women, Samantha could handle the stress of her job, but not the stress lines.
15 minutes later, Samantha seemed to have it all...peeled off.
There are times when a woman relishes being alone.
Oh, my God!
And those are the times you usually run into someone you don't wanna see. In my case, it was Enid, my editor at Vogue, also alone.
- Enid. Hi. How are you?
- Are you meeting someone?
- Would you like to...
- It's fine. I was just reading.
- Hi.
- Oh, reading!
- Sure. I just ordered.
- Right.
Enid and I ran out of Vogue stuff to talk about midway through our salads.
- Do you live in the neighborhood?
- So, there's a man.
That's great. You have a wildly successful career and a relationship. I was worried we women, only get one or the other, but you have it all. You gotta give me something here. I'm working my ass off.
You're okay with that?
Her little tip earned Enid one invitation to my party. That night, Charlotte let her perfect plus one have it all.
She even let him stay the night in her perfect pre-war apartment.
Unfortunately, Charlotte was about to get much more than she ordered.
Charlotte discovered that a plus one, plus one ex-mother-in-law equals disaster.
Meanwhile, I was manning Party Central.
What happened to this perfect plus one we all had to meet?
- Sweetie, what... That's my call waiting. Hang on a sec.
- Of course you're on the list.
- Yes, I heard.
It's okay to be a nobody when you have nobody?
I can't believe I used to like that song. It's the co-dependent national anthem.
I just miss having you as my plus one. The gay guy is the single gal's safety net. Even Charlotte has a gay plus one, and this is my big night.
- Yes, he's coming. He styled the event.
- I have a call. See you tonight.
- Hello?
You have to come. You're my publicist. Thanks to you, there's going to be 8,000 people there. I would like to see at least one familiar face. I need you. I can't talk to the press. I can't keep everyone straight. And you said you'd be my plus one.
- Okay. Thank you.
The party was one of those amazing events that would definitely end up on page 6. The fact that it was my party was just icing on the beautiful little cakes that were being passed around by beautiful little waiters.
Is it a bad thing if the party is better than the book?
Have you seen Samantha? Vanity Fair doesn't have a table.
Harold Keenan from The New Yorker. This is Samantha Jones, bee-keeper. What are you doing under there? Talk to the man. Let him see your face.
There she was. My plus one. Minus one layer of skin.
Could you at least separate the two thoughts, chemical peel, Carrie's publicist? Why did you do this?
Gum is an impulse purchase. This is more than gum.
Well, you are. You look like Beef Carpaccio. Veil down, I think.
- And you were able to eat?
Wait! No! The hat was good!
Make that political statement elsewhere. This is my party, and you're scaring people.
- And she's not afraid to say it.
For some people, having it all is not enough. They need someone who missed out on it all to be jealous.
From a pair of queens to a hand still not shown...
Miranda was trying to prove she could still do it all: Bring home the bacon, bring home the baby, and bring home an orgasm.
The night of my big party, Miranda finally gave in to her little party, because she wasn't the same person. She was plus one.
- Okay, I'll remember that.
- Worth coming downtown for?
Was that a yes or a no? Last one. Thank you.
As I looked around, I thought, "Who needs a date?" I can have my cake and eat it, too. Then suddenly, there he was, looking cuter than I remembered and minus one girlfriend.
So's the dessert tray, when it's your party.
- 400 of my closest acquaintances.
- I thought you couldn't make it.
- Thanks for coming, Berger.
- You, too.
- Yes, it was. Jack Berger. All by his lonesome.
- Is he? I forgot again.
Can you call me from a cab and tell me that? I love you, but your face...
I thought you'd never ask! Thank you for being here.
I know. And I have to live with that.
I'd love to leave, but I have to stay. I'm like the ice sculpture the party's supposed to happen around. I had to let him go, correct? I just wish he'd told me right up front.
I'm lonely. I am. The loneliness is palpable.
- Cliff who?
That's him? Cliff from Primetime Stories? Don't make a scene! Is this her side of town?
As it turns out, even the most together-woman can't keep it together when it comes to love...
- My role model.
…Because just below the surface, we're all raw and exposed.
- Me. I have a book coming out.
- It's just a collection of my... Yes, I wrote a book.
- Thank you.
It was kind of amazing. Why did I need a stranger to remind me of that?
- Home. 73rd and...
- Oh, no, I don't...
- You don't have to...
All I could think was, who needs a Berger when you can get a fabulous hot dog for 75 cents or free? Then again, maybe there is something to knowing they're out there.
In the life of a New Yorker, there are several unpleasant things one will inevitably have to face: Having your purse stolen, random public urination, and seeing a gay friend's boyfriend in a Broadway revue.
I think I understand the three-drink minimum now.
Frankly, I'm more concerned about my own review in the Times.
More like terrified. Michiko Kakutani. She's the Times' book critic.
- She's brilliant, and she's really tough.
I think they're bringing us home.
And he can kick.
- I have to go to the ladies' room.
I have to go to the ladies' room.
If it makes you feel any better, I had a thing for the Amish guys who make hairbrushes.
Yeah, have we met?
There I was, worried about the New York Times when apparently I'd already been reviewed.
I'm telling you, it was a hit-and-run. No, it was a face-and-run.
No, it was not Bell's palsy. It was a full-frontal attack of the face like: "Wow, was he messed up. You really screwed him up good."
I didn't have time to say anything. She just ran out of the bathroom.
- Well, when you put it like that...
- You poor thing. Can I do anything?
He has issues, clearly.
Ask him if I could get an injunction to stop a face.
Miranda, call me if you need anything.
Damn! Why is that girl still bothering me?
Early Monday morning, Charlotte met with her lawyer. He was smart, tough, and gorgeous.
It was a battle, all right. The battle of the Charlottes. The Charlotte who wanted to seem attractive to her adorable lawyer and the Charlotte who wanted to kick Bunny MacDougal's ass.
Charlotte realized she could never be as ugly as she needed to be in front of a man she considered so handsome.
And just like that, Charlotte changed lawyers.
After a grueling day, which included leg, eyebrow, and bikini waxes, Samantha decided to reward herself with a night of R and R. Unfortunately, her favorite vibrator needed a little CPR.
Evidently, Miranda had been getting bad reviews from inside her own building.
As for my review, I guess I was pretty nervous.
- Times.
I hadn't been up this early since Princess Diana's wedding.
Good morning.
"All in all, I enjoyed spending time in Ms. Bradshaw's sharp, funny, finely-drawn world where single women rule, and the men are disposable." Ouch!
- "The men are disposable"? I don't dispose of men, do I?
- Michiko Kakutani thinks so, and I always agree with her.
- No sleep again?
With what shoes? My God, listen to me going on and on about Michiko Kakutani when you have real problems. So can I obsess for another minute?
So, yes, some of the men in the book are maybe a little disposable, but this makes it sound like I think men are disposable in life. What? What's with the pause?
That's a terrible thing to think about me. Oh, my God, that's what the face meant. Do you think that Aidan thinks that I think he was disposable?
That girl thinks I did. He must have said something like that to her. Where else would she get it? Steve and Aidan are close. Has Steve ever said anything to you? Does Steve hate me now?
Then how come I never see him anymore?
I worked very hard at taking care of Aidan's feelings. Will you mention that to Steve? Because if Aidan told Steve...
You're not alienating anyone.
Please.
- That's not true. You're doing great.
You're just having a bad week. Can I do anything to help?
Why is it that we only seem to believe the negative things people say about us, no matter how much evidence there is to the contrary? A neighbor, a face, an ex-boyfriend can cancel out everything we thought was once true. Odd, but when it comes to life and love, why do we believe our worst reviews?
After a long day in court, Miranda faced another jury.
And at City Bakery, Samantha and I were reviewing the desserts.
Delish. I'll buy you dessert if you do something for me.
- Come on, best brownies in New York.
- It's about Miranda and the baby.
- No, she'll take the brownie.
- You can't call a baby an asshole.
I don't think it would kill all of us to be a little more supportive.
Maybe you could just stop by Tomorrow and say: "I hear you had a baby. How's that going?"
Hair and a vibrator?
We're not talking about people, we're talking about our friend. And she's sinking.
She's paying for the brownie.
- Julia, hi.
This is my friend Samantha. This is Julia Afton. We work together at Vogue.
There I was, face to face with the face girl.
- How do you know Nina Katz?
- She's also the face girl.
- Exactly. Great. That face will be all over Vogue.
I'm going to need a big brownie as well.
The next day, Samantha did some personal shopping. Very personal.
Samantha instantly established herself as the Michiko Kakutani of vibrators.
Three blissful baby hours later…
Meanwhile, in a chair across town, I was enjoying an afternoon of absolutely nothing.
Do you think Nina Katz is telling random celebrity hosts that I'm the bad-breakup girlfriend?
You said she loved to talk. Do you think she's trashing me to, say, a Gwyneth Paltrow or an lan McKellen?
Don't get me wrong. I don't flatter myself that a Gwyneth Paltrow or an lan McKellen would be interested in my love life. Are you at a zoo?
- You're at Miranda's?
- That was nice.
- So he's not hurt?
- Or wet?
- Then I don't know what his problem is.
Maybe you should call Miranda.
No, wait, what about Nina?
Monday morning, Harry did his best to make sure Bunny didn't hop all over Charlotte.
Charlotte couldn't fight any more. It seemed to her she'd been fighting for this marriage forever.
That's the thing about reviews. Sometimes, when you least expect it, you get a rave.
Even though things had gotten ugly, Charlotte didn't want them to end that way.
Charlotte realized there was no such thing as a fairy-tale divorce either.
And farther uptown, still unable to let it go, Nina Katz and that face had driven me to face my worst fear.
So, Steve, I know I was kind of vague on the phone...
No, it's not about Miranda. It's about... How does Aidan feel about me?
No, but that pretty much answers any question I had about how you feel. So, what, does he hate me?
- How bad? Steve, the ball.
- How is he now?
- Good.
- What? Days, weeks?
- Oh, Christ.
- A month?
He lost his ability to open up and trust women? Did he tell you that?
Okay, we're looking for the cute pretzel guys.
This isn't about cruising, it's about clarity. That face chick is hitting a little too close to home. I want to find her and tell her my side of the breakup story.
I know it, but she doesn't.And she's yip-yapping her version all over town. It only takes one bad review to cancel out all the good word-of-mouth.
Nice. I mean, relationships are complicated. You can't reduce them to a face. I know that Aidan has feelings...
I'm sorry.
Real or imaginary?
So, now what, you want me to review your relationship?
- Okay, well, I like that he makes you happy.
I need to talk to you for a second, alone, if I can.
I get the sense that you have a sort of feeling about what happened with Aidan, and I just want to clear something up. Breakups are awful, and they are private. And they are not necessarily sympTomatic of what two people had together. I loved Aidan very much. And I would never, ever have done anything to deliberately hurt him.
Suddenly, I realized the critic I was most afraid of wasn't Nina Katz. It was me.
So, bye.
The truth is, at any given moment, someone, somewhere could be making a face about you. But it's the reviews you give yourself that matter.
- Being pretty.
Come on.
One night, four ladies in the east met at Compass to discuss going west.
I have to go to San Francisco on a book tour.
They're making me. Apparently, I'm very big in San Francisco.
Okay, yes, perhaps I'll see Big. Guys, I need to have sex. It's been too long. Lately, I've been having these dreams where I run. I run up to complete strangers and just start kissing them.
Same old? It just opened last week.
Sounds to me like you might be experiencing a "been there, done them" existential crisis.
No, I don't want to say hi. I want to say: "Could one of you lie on top of me for a while?" I need to feel the weight of a man on me.
No, only in bad screenplays and first novels.
We could put one in every neighborhood, like Starbucks.
No, Big is my male prostitute. I am mixing business with much-needed pleasure. And my relief is just a train ride away.
No, flying makes me nervous. I get uneasy seeing the National Guard go through my makeup case. Besides, it'll be fun. Especially if Samantha goes with me. Please, come on, it'll be hilarious.
Two gals on a train. Very Some Like It Hot. And the whole trip ends with a luxury suite in a fabulous four-star San Francisco hotel.
Because Samantha is the only one who's bored enough to do it.
- I'm gonna get laid.
More and more single women of a certain age are looking for a certain thing. And that certain thing does not necessarily involve a certain ring. We may have traded the little black book for a little black dress, and replaced the Ferrari with a Fendi. But in view of certain evidence, I had to wonder: Are we the new bachelors?
I haven't yet. I'm gonna wait till I get there. You know, "Hello, guess where I am." Very casual, very...
I think I'm getting a pimple. Can you see anything? Right here, above my freckle.
Good, the last thing I need is a big, honking zit when I meet my prostitute.
Think of it as an adventure. "It's not the destination, it's the journey." A journey in adjoining, first-class, deluxe sleeper berths.
Hello, sir.
We were supposed to have the deluxe, first-class sleeper.
Wait. You shower over the toilet?
And in a far less crowded space...
Somewhere outside of Pittsburgh, Samantha and I decided to get out of our twin cans and go for a classic train dinner in the club car.
This is it? I thought there'd be white linen tablecloths and Bing Crosby singing at a piano.
- Excuse me, table for two, please.
Sorry, the train zigged. Okay. Excuse me. Sorry.
Really? Hello. Thank you.
Don't ask me. I'm horny. And nine hours of train-rocking hasn't helped. Sorry.
Don't even say "potato chip" to me. This zit is getting bigger by the hour. Can you see it now?
Really?
- What's safe to order?
And a martini. God, I need a big old drink. Again, sorry.
And speaking of martinis...
Two days, two toilet showers, and too many club sandwiches later...
- It's me, and it's still bad.
Both. I tried to squeeze it somewhere outside Oklahoma.
Here's a helpful hint: Never give yourself a train facial.
If this thing doesn't deflate by Colorado, I'm not even calling Big. Hold on, someone who used to be Samantha just came in.
I can't go anywhere with this pimple.
I have to go to a bachelor party.
And back in New York, Charlotte found herself sandwiched between some confirmed bachelors.
This blush is worse than a pimple. I look like I'm in a high-school play or something.
And just like that, we went from Some Like It Hot to Some Like Us Not.
- You are pretty hot.
- Champagne.
My friend over there has come on this very long trip as a favor to me and I was hoping that one of you fellows could oblige her in a little harmless male flirtation.
As far as a pimp, I was a total train wreck.
They love their wives.
This thing has roots.
I'm sorry about the train. This was a terrible idea. It's all my fault. All because I had to get laid. There. Popped it.
One very long trip later, Samantha and I dragged our cabooses into a bookstore near the Golden Gate.
My publisher.
- Hi!
That's debatable. Wow! I can't believe it. All these people came to hear me read?
- Who's Mr. Winkle?
Lily, I can't be the opening act for a dog.
Thanks, but don't even waste your energy. You know, go back to the hotel, and get in that giant tub and relax. I'll see you later, we'll have a meal.
Between the pimple and the puppy, I'm not up for it.
- Yeah, go. Take a long bath.
- Bye.
This book tour stuff is rough. That's a cute top.
"As I walked home, I couldn't help but wonder: Was it Big, was it New York or was it me?" Does anyone have a question? Yes?
In a mere moment. So, if there are no other questions about my book...Yes, I see a hand, but I can't see the man. Could you shift? Sorry.
Yes, but I can't reveal it. I have to protect his privacy.
I no longer cared about Mr. Winkle. I had Big.
- Samantha!
- You have to get out. Big's here, I need to have sex.
- I got you a smaller room all to yourself downstairs.
Please. I have to get laid.
Can you hurry? I told him to come up in about half an hour. So, snap it up. Faster. Okay, bye-bye. Thank you, sweets.
- God. Hey, you.
- What body?
- Aren't you something? Want some?
- Yeah. You look good.
- What?
Sorry. Here, let me kiss it and make it all better. How's that?
- I'm not hungry.
Okay.
Wait, you were in a mall?
- Sir, you are too kind.
- Sexy?
- Porch?
What do you think?
You've read my columns.
Come on, that's fiction. I embellished.
It's just writing. It's all in the past. Let's forget all that and talk about something else. How's the wine business?
- Yeah?
Oh, my God.
Suddenly, it became clear to me: This was not my best-laid plan.
No. You're hot. Very hot.
- That was all years ago. Can we please stop talking?
- What?
- I won't. It's just sex.
What happened in New York was all my fault. I didn't read the signs. You were unavailable, and very clear about that. It was all me. Now, please, kiss me. Or at least lie on top of me.
- That's fiction. And it's not even a bestseller.
Oh, God. I can't believe this is happening. Are you involved with someone else?
It's the pimple, isn't it?
I'm fine. Look at me. Put the book down and look at me. I'm fine. Just fine. Don't I look fine?
And you... have a hard dick. Now, put your pants on and go. Is that okay?
There they were: The bachelorette and the beast.
- This is just sex. We're not a couple. You're just...a great fuck. Is that clear?
- Hello?
- What time is it?
- What time did I say?
- Okay. Thank you.
After my wake-up call, I got my real wake-up call. Thanks to my book, nothing was ever going to happen with Big.
I have two book readings this morning, before I head back to New York.
- Now? What about last night? All that talk? All those concerns?
"Like that freckle on my face that he once told me he loved. I could do my best to cover it during the day, but at night, after I washed the city off my face, there it was, a tiny brown dot near the tip of my lip. And I wondered how something so small could suddenly seem so big."
- Here you go.
- Thanks for doing all that.
- We had sex.
Yeah, but it was not as simple as I had hoped.
The question-and-answer section of this reading is now over. I'll tell you on the train.
- What about the midlife crisis?
And sometimes it's not the journey. It's the destination.
In this ever-expanding galaxy called New York City, there are certain heavenly bodies one orbits around every day. And then there are those stars whose gravitational pull one drifts in and out of over the years.
Bobby Fine, satellite friend, piano bar legend.
- It hasn't been that long, has it?
You're getting married?
He doesn't need the money. He was one of the original investors in Chorus Line.
In 1988, Bobby Fine announced that he was going to sell his piano bar downtown and go volunteer with Nicaraguan orphans. The orphans are still waiting. This wedding will never happen.
It's happening.
That's the really big question? What about, "Why are these two people marrying each other?" Is that all there is?
- I guess you don't want to be my date then.
Relax. We can stay with Stanford and Marcus.
Okay, let's say it's companionship. How do you sustain a relationship without the zsa zsa zsu?
That butterflies-in-your-sTomach thing that happens when you not only love the person, but you gotta have them. Isn't that what gets you through the years? Even if it fades, at least you have the memory of the zsa zsa zsu.
I think that's how Bitsy proposed to Bobby.
It was right about then Charlotte decided to be straight with us.
- You're in a "sort of" relationship?
That night, I thought about what it takes to make a relationship work till death do us part. Most singles have more long-term success with friends. So maybe it is a better strategy to marry a friend. However, in the absence of sex, whether that's the arrangement, or just what happens after a few years, what distinguishes this companion from your many other companions? When it comes to saying "I do", is a relationship a relationship without the zsa zsa zsu? Or in Samantha's case, how much is a woman due for surviving the zsa zsa zsu?
A couple of weeks later, another couple of exes were working out their summer share.
Miranda wasn't sure if it was the smell of the lilacs, the smell of the baby, or the smell of Steve's skin. But that afternoon, Steve went from ex to sex.
Miranda admitted they were somewhere between friends and lovers, somewhere between Manhattan and the Hamptons.
That's why you decided to participate in the charade. You're fleeing.
- Perhaps it was the zsa zsa zsu.
You're fleeing to the right wedding. I think that's the theme.
That being what, that you're happy?
- Are we still invited?
Evidently, there's already a party pooper. Ketchup.
- Yeah. Hi.
- Berger. I know, I remember.
- No, it's just... -
Yeah. Thanks. I didn't figure you for a motorcycle guy.
It was exactly what I wanted. A Berger with a side of single.
You look good on it.
So you're "uneasy rider." Well, if you make it to the Hamptons, my friend is having a party Tomorrow afternoon. It's at Richard's house.
Yeah, you, too, Berger. Maybe I'll see you Tomorrow.
- Yeah.
Definitely zsa zsa zsu.
The next morning, Samantha prepared her borrowed beach house for the big bash.
Miranda brought the kid. Don't say anything.
Then who's the Double-D list by the pool?
People in glass houses...
Frankly, I don't know why you broke up with him. What's a little lying and cheating compared to a pool with a little cabana?
Lady? And Brady?
- Bye.
I swear, and I'm totally serious, I almost fainted when he mimed grated cheese on Marcus.
Try to keep up. Bobby is straight.
- What is she doing?
Why did she need to tell me the sex was amazing?
- No! I'm sure they're just good friends. God! How do I look?
- Jesus! Where's a mirror?
Great. All right, put it down. It's okay. Thanks for having a party.
- How long have you had a house here?
Moments later, among the butterflies, I felt butterflies.
. - So, you garden?
I know how you feel. When I broke up with my ex. I couldn't bring myself to go within six blocks of his furniture store.
Last year, for the second time. We broke up the first time the year before that.
Yeah, well, we hadn't sufficiently hurt each other enough the first time round. But we definitely took care of business this time. Because this time, he moved in, so we had the merging of the things...
...the dividing of the things, the things that are left behind that you don't want to get back because that seems mean, and you don't want to throw them away because it's all you have left. It gets harder as we get older because we're not dating wildly inappropriate people anymore. You know, there's no "Glad that's over."
After every breakup I tell myself I'm not doing this again. It's too hard. I mean, how many of these things can one person survive? You know, they should institute a helmet law for relationships.
- Thank you.
- Sorry. Gee. I hope there aren't grass stains.
- Bye.
The man could not get away from me fast enough. Apparently, it's a short road from commisery to misery.
Are you okay?
Evidently, people who borrow glass houses shouldn't throw cantaloupes.
The next morning, while Stanford and Marcus had Brady, Miranda and I had brunch.
- How about these eggs?
- How about these plates?
- How about maybe now I won't have a choice?
- Bye-bye, Berger.
One minute we were laughing, the next minute he had to get away from me so fast, he left skidmarks. Seriously. I can show them to you.
I know what I did. I revealed too much, too soon. I was emotionally slutty.
It wasn't me. It was the zsa zsa zsu. It makes me crazy. Bitsy Von Muffling Fine may have the right idea. Maybe we should stop looking for a great relationship and settle for a fine one.
- So, a gay area is better than a gray area?
You did it, Stany. Great man, great house, great relationship. We've all been looking, and you actually found it.
Thank God! I am so relieved.
Perhaps we were all much too cynical. Perhaps, somehow, despite the odds, Bobby and Bitsy had found something real.
One more time, for the cheap seats at the back.
Looks like somebody over here is about to dance.
Me, too.
With a little time and the right astringents, who knows?
What a beautiful night. It's too bad I blew my only chance at a boyfriend this year.
I think I'm going to drown my sorrows in another piece of cake. And if anybody asks, I had two, not three.
I have dinner rolls in my purse.
Not a penny.
Sure.
Apparently, Charlotte had a zsa zsa Jew.
- And I intend to stay that way.
Then you thought what?
When it comes to relationships, maybe we're all in glass houses and shouldn't throw stones. Because you can never really know. Some people are settling down. Some people are settling. And some people refuse to settle for anything less...than butterflies.
When you live in the city that never sleeps it comes as a bit of a shock when somehow you manage to oversleep.
Taxi! Excuse me.
Taxi! Thank you.
Shit! Sir, I have to be downtown in 30 minutes.
Thank you.
Keep the change.
Excuse me.
Hi.
- Which way to the stock exchange?
Thank you.
Excuse me.
- Okay.
Here, can you hold that? Let's go.
I'm sorry.
Sir, can you hurry? I'm here to ring the bell.
- Okay, thank you.
The day after the stock market I met the ladies for lunch in the fashionable Meat Market.
It was so exciting.
It almost made me want to invest in something.
Exactly.
I like my money right where I can see it.
Hanging in my closet.
Really? Thank you, sweetie.
Was it expensive?
- I never -
- I never liked his clothes.
- Too fatty.
A new man.
That's right.
Friday night, my first official date with Jack.
He hasn't said yet.
So many outfits need to be scouted.
I know.
I feel like a girl of 35 again.
I really like him.
And from the meat market to the marriage market.
And from Jewish to pooish.
Oh, my God, I can't believe it.
I knew. I just can't believe you admitted it.
It's 11:30 on a Saturday morning.
I think I got an old bottle of Kahlúa somewhere.
Okay, hold on there, Brady.
Mama needs a cocktail.
Good thinking.
These Triscuits have been here since the mid-'80s.
- Miranda -
No, I was just asking if Brady can eat crackers yet.
You weren't wrong. It just took you a while to get here.
What are you gonna do?
- Plus you said you were in love with him.
So how are you gonna tell him?
My God, Miranda.
Do you know what this means? You're asking Steve out on a date.
That night, as Samantha walked home past her friendly neighborhood bar, the Rampole she saw something truly upsetting.
And uptown, in a slightly less obvious maneuver -
The next morning, bright and early
Charlotte had had her fill of potential husbands and their demanding mothers.
Harry's stock suddenly began to plummet.
And just like that, it was up again.
And he calculated which times and which theaters would be least crowded, which says, "take charge.
" Yet left the restaurant choice to me, which says, "flexible.
" All in all, the perfect machine message.
I think Berger and I are going to be very happy together.
I love this time before the first date when you can say things like that and almost believe them.
- Because I really like him.
And you can imagine what that does to a girl.
Right after, I got a message from this other fellow who I've known for a year, suddenly asking me out which only proves my theory: The only thing a girl needs to get a date is another date.
No, I already have a date.
I am not going on a simu-date.
None.
Six.
All returnable.
All right, maybe just a casual coffee to take the edge off Berger.
Later that day, I got to thinking about the stock market and dating.
Are they really that different? If you have a bad stock, you can lose your shirt.
If you have a bad date, you can lose your will to live.
And if the date is good, the stakes get even higher.
After weathering all the ups and downs you could one day find yourself with nothing.
When it comes to finance and dating I couldn't help but wonder.
"Why do we keep investing?" And speaking of high-risk investments
Miranda feared it was possibly the most imperfect machine message ever.
And Samantha decided to say it with a basket.
A little while later, Samantha blew Chip the stockbroker.
Just like that, their mutual fun turned into mutual funds.
Later that week, I met graphic designer Willy Applegate for a late afternoon simu-date.
This is a cute place.
Yeah, it's great.
It suddenly became clear that a simu-date for me was a first date for him.
- Excuse me?
" I didn't even - No, I wasn't looking at it.
No, I have never.
No, it's fine.
It's fun.
It's like a "cappuccino wilderness safari.
God, here.
It was a sudden crash no analyst had seen coming.
And in yet another type of market I hope you're happy now.
I'm twice as nervous about my Berger date.
Caring too much is like a disaster magnet.
Can you catch a sty helping someone up from gravel? Where's the homeopathic section? Maybe they make something called "Sty-B-Gone.
I'm thrown by the change of topic, but I do appreciate the trivia.
Not surprising.
And a big old, honking piece of jewelry.
- Sorry, it's my potential sty talking.
Are you thinking of pulling an Elizabeth Taylor?
Wise words.
I'll meet you at the checkout.
Charlotte wondered just how far she would go for her true love.
Charlotte realized it was time to reveal to Harry her bottom line.
Charlotte York was deeply touched by Harry's humor, compassion, and acceptance.
"If this is Jewish," she thought, "that's worth looking into.
" Meanwhile, downtown, Samantha had moved her neighbor from stocks and bonds to stockings and bondage.
Turns out, Chip Kilkenny was quite the ladies' man.
And every time a woman went down, the Dow went up.
And at a romantic restaurant, a 37-year-old single mother found herself on a first date.
I think you're overreacting to that thing that never happened.
I have to say this next thing but I will play along and not look at you while I say it.
Maybe if you had told Steve anyway
I'm sorry, but I'm looking and I'm talking.
This is your life.
You two have a baby together.
It is not high school.
God, I look like shit!
I look like shit.
This is not my perfect outfit.
Yeah, bye. Oh, God.
Shit! I was just entering the safety zone when There he was.
My emotional equivalent to the big crash of '29.
Aidan.
- Look at you.
- I have a date.
This is him?
- Home. So things are good? They look good.
- Really?
Yep. You can't fight city hall.
- Another time. I really have to run.
Bye, Tate.
Oh, God, Aidan.
It's good to see you.
Great.
Okay, we'll do that.
Bye.
There is the type of date you can't wait to keep.
And the type of date you both know you'll never keep.
A block later, I realized if Aidan and I could survive that huge a crash and both get out alive there was nothing I could do on a first date I couldn't bounce back from.
Berger, it's Carrie.
Hi, listen.
I'm standing outside the Sony Theater near Lincoln Center and Craig's Room starts in half an hour.
And there are no lines.
Can you go now?
Really? Must be fate.
- Okay.
Bye.
I got the tickets.
- I am the candy gal.
- Yeah?
Sammy Davis.
You don't feel the need to use the Junior?
- Really?
And by close of Wall Street that day the NASDAQ was down, but amazingly, our stock was still up.
The only thing as delicious as those first few bites of a truly great burger are those first few dates with someone truly great like Berger.
- She was not.
Everything is fresh.
Everything is a first.
Everything is foreplay.
Even a trip to Bed Bath & Beyond can become an ecstatic errand.
I don't see you as a fish person.
It's a pyramid scheme, this shower curtain.
And here they thought communism was a problem.
You know, it's a very intimate thing, shopping for shower curtains.
And, of course, those first kisses are the greatest kisses in the world.
The wait staff couldn't wait any longer and neither could I.
I wanted Berger in my bed, bath, and beyond immediately.
- My hair.
No, I just
The next night, Samantha convinced us to go to Raw where the scene was hot and the food was not.
You'd think a place that eliminated cooking could eliminate waiting.
- And sometimes flowers.
- I read a review in The Times.
Sorry.
I didn't get enough sleep last night.
- How long have you been waiting to say that?
- Yes, we finally buggered.
- It was good.
- It was fine.
- I don't want to talk about it.
He could get it up.
That wasn't the
You know what, there was no problem.
Moving on.
What? I don't want to make a big deal about it.
It was just the first time.
We're so good everywhere else.
We're great in restaurants, it's like poppity pop-pop.
And the kisses are great, and then in bed there was no sexual chemistry.
I don't know what happened.
He just
- He knows what he's doing.
- It was just quiet.
- I'm not worried.
It was so quiet that at one point I heard the M11 bus.
I heard the doors open, I heard people getting off.
Maybe some things should be over 118 degrees.
Can we please forget I said anything? Seriously.
Who else has news?
Mazel tov.
- And to which boyfriend are we referring?
- You've traded Steve-o for TiVo.
- I thought if I changed his name
- If only we could do that in life.
I stopped watching TV when people started putting leeches down their pants.
Good luck to them.
- I know.
- Have you had to work at it?
I have never had to work at it with someone I really like.
- Okay, but, Miranda I got to tell you, it was not good.
There was no throw down.
It was more like a slow down.
It caught me completely off guard because I thought it would be amazing.
- What?
As I tried to scrub the smell of uncooked okra off me I started thinking about "sexpectations".
We're aware as smart, single women that we can't expect perfection but life still manages to throw us curve balls.
Maybe once you're into your mid-30s, it shouldn't be called dating.
It should be called "Waiting for the other shoe to drop.
" If it's not the sex between me and you then someone has to become a Jew.
Why is it always something? Unless you're in a problem-free relationship with TiVo.
The next day, Charlotte boldly went where no York had gone before.
The synagogue.
Harry definitely had throw down but Charlotte was too thrown and down to care.
Suddenly Charlotte understood.
They were playing hard to get.
They were rules rabbis.
No man rejects Charlotte York.
Miranda was looking forward to another perfect night with her perfect boyfriend.
But unfortunately, there was another woman.
And across town, I lay in bed willing Berger to call me which never works.
- Hello?
Same old.
Did The Times crossword puzzle, found a cure for cancer.
Monday's, not Sunday's.
I need three people to do Sunday's, one has to have the answers.
I was thinking that if two people can be good in bed when they're not in the same bed, how hard a conversion could it be?
- I have some answers if you have cab fare.
Is that the saying?
I don't want to dump him.
I think he's fantastic.
Aren't we getting a little old to jump to the dump?
What about working on things? Look at Charlotte, she's becoming a Jew.
- You talk to sales people like that?
Is this for a specific gentleman or do you just look for that generally?
I think I have to talk to him.
- We talk about everything else.
- Okay, that was unnecessary.
I can't do that without alcohol.
I don't wear furry shoes.
- He mostly wears Loafers.
- Are you sure I can't talk to him about it?
Plus, he must know it's not great.
He can't think this is good.
Oh, God.
Is it possible he thinks this is good?
We'll take two.
And these in a 7.
That evening Miranda had one of those regrettable discussions that results from the belief that you and your partner should be able to talk through any problem.
Friday night with Berger.
I had my sexy lingerie under my cool couture and I was feeling good.
You look so hot in that shirt.
Okay, we're gonna need some drinks.
- All right, okay.
When in Rome
Since we were 0 for two, I figured two-for-one was a good idea.
And after three unreturned phone calls, Charlotte decided to make a house call.
And Samantha was at Raw, ready to get things cooking.
Suddenly Samantha realized why the raw food movement was a movement.
Women weren't there for the cold food they were there for the hot waiter.
Some things, like a broken TiVo, can be repaired.
And others, like a broken heart, are a little more complicated.
Four hours and four courses of uncooked food later Samantha and her competitors waited it out.
Maybe they were less horny, maybe it was all that roughage but one by one, women threw in the napkin.
Meanwhile, I was finally confident I could heat up my sex life because I was a sex columnist.
I was resourceful, and I was drunk.
I got a little something for you.
And you're gonna love it.
Look at that.
Get ready, mister 'cause I got something under here for you.
And there are shoes.
Wait till you see me in these.
Yeah, I'm fine.
And after a night of raw food Samantha enjoyed an all-nighter of raw sex.
Samantha was still having sex when it dawned on me that Berger and I hadn't.
Hey.
We both knew, it was now or never.
That morning I resigned myself to the idea that I would never again have frozen drinks or hot sex.
- I know.
- We're so good everywhere else.
- We're the best.
Are you coming back?
Shoes.
Berger, what if we're just not good together in bed?
- We did.
- I choked.
I agree.
- Shall I put them on? - Yeah, couldn't hurt.
- I wanted to talk to you, but
We should be able to talk about these things.
- We'll talk.
That morning the other shoe dropped, and it wasn't bad at all.
In fact, it was kind of hot.
In New York City, it is a statistical fact that once every seven minutes, an unsuspecting woman
dates an actor.
For Samantha, one of the perks of dating Jerry the actor was getting to stage full-scale fantasy productions.
- And this is my friend, Samantha.
There is no greater sound than your friends laughing at your new boyfriend's jokes.
- Okay, moving on.
Miranda, how was your date with the real estate guy?
Two kisses.
Very promising.
- Don't listen to him.
That is ludicrous!
What about extenuating circumstances?
What about you're stressed out, you're on deadline, you have a migraine?
I've made a whole career of it.
Honey, ignore this person.
He doesn't know what he's talking about.
You're fired.
The best part of a night out with your friends is talking about them all the way home.
- They thought you were hilarious.
I know.
I love her.
And I love that you loved her.
God, she loved you.
They all did.
And they're a tough crowd.
- Okay, your choice: Fudgesicle or Nutty Buddy? Oh, my God! I wanted this one.
We're perfect! When you went to the men's room, they were
- What, am I talking too much?
I love you, too.
And I'm not saying it because you said it to me.
I promise.
I was gonna say it before.
I've been thinking it the whole night.
I love you.
I just wanted to say it again on my own.
In my euphoric state I knew there was only one kind of person who could tolerate me.
It's the fastest I've ever said, "I love you," but I could not hold it in my mouth.
- I'm in love.
Sometimes I look at Berger, and he's so cute I just wanna squeeze his face off!
Just when I thought my week couldn't get any better I came home to find a little surprise from Berger.
From Berger's book to Samantha's books.
In my fantasy, Hurricane Pandora would be brilliant.
In reality it was.
I just finished it, just this minute.
I swear.
It's 400 pages.
- Are you done?
Yes, I'm done, and if you would shut your trap I could tell you that I love, love, loved it.
I loved it! Except for one huge problem.
You have your leading lady running all over town wearing a scrunchy.
Nothing, unless you're writing about women in Manhattan.
In which case, where do I begin?
In the bathroom maybe, when they're washing their faces.
But here's the thing.
Here's my crucial point.
No woman who works at W magazine and lives on Perry Street would be caught dead at a hip, downtown restaurant wearing a scrunchy.
Man, it's a good thing I came along because you may know the fellows, but I know the ladies.
Okay, can I read you my favorite part?
He completely shut down.
Why? Why did I have to get up on my sassy horse and ruin everything?
And the thing that kills me is I love the book.
I could have gushed about it all night.
Why did I have to go straight to the negative and just pick at it?
- Used to? He has a new girlfriend for that now.
- Do you think Debbie picks at Steve?
I think I made it abundantly clear just how much I care.
I think, right now, Berger's just not that into me.
Yeah, it's that kind of thinking that got me into this in the first place.
One of the signs that a female gorilla is in love is that she can be seen picking nits off her male companion.
And yet, in humans, nit-picking can ruin a perfectly good evening not to mention a relationship.
Women are known to be more verbal than men.
But when does criticism that's constructive become destructive?
Are there times when the ladies should just shut the fuck up?
The next morning, another woman was making too much noise.
Later, on her lunch hour, Miranda checked her Blackberry.
There it was.
The uncomfortable e-mail Berger had predicted.
Having passed on the gospel to these New York women Miranda could only hope they would spread the word far and wide.
And as two women's fantasies were being shattered another's were being brought to life.
That sobered Samantha right up.
Jerry had taken the fantasy into dangerous territory.
Reality.
Meanwhile, Charlotte was hard at work on her fantasy role.
Martha Jewart.
Doesn't Shabbos mean "day of rest," i.e. ordering in?
- Okay, you don't have to holler.
Because I didn't want to spend the entire week saying, "Guess you had to be there."
Definitely, the apron softens you.
With her high school boyfriend, Charlotte doodled.
With Harry, she Jew-dled.
You forgot Charlotte Yorkenblatt.
- November works for me.
Miranda, zip the lip.
And ever since her reality check with Jerry Samantha had no interest in seeing him again.
However, when a certain government official called she was more than happy to take a meeting.
There would still be accountants and undercover agents in their future.
But that night, Samantha and Jerry got off on playing themselves.
Meanwhile, I was looking forward to putting the scrunchy moment behind us.
Unfortunately, it was staring us in the face.
- She's not from New York.
Doesn't matter.
Did they say how long the wait was gonna be?
Downtown, over curried lamb and chutney Miranda found herself pleasantly surprised by Charlotte's matchmaking skills.
Apparently there is one rare exception to Berger's rule and it often involves curry.
After dinner, Berger ate banana cream pie and I ate my words.
Another thing I loved was the way you used the sister's phone calls as little landposts.
I mean, landmarks or mileposts.
Anyway I just loved how those sort of punctuated the story.
It was just a really nice touch.
Oh, my God, the introduction Brilliant! You're instantly on this guy's side, even though he's a complete mess.
You know, you really just nailed him.
While I was working overtime Charlotte's work was finally coming to an end.
Finally it was Charlotte who was on mute.
The Mets won that night, 5 to 4.
But Charlotte lost everything that mattered to her.
I just remembered another hilarious part.
And later, on the corner of 73rd and mea culpa
You know the scene where the dishwasher guy is spooning up the Rice Chex and he's putting them back in the box?
It's perfection.
How did you come up with that?
- No, it was not.
It was hysterical.
I just wanted you to know how much I loved your book because I did.
And I'm sorry I muddied it up with the whole scrunchy thing.
- Are you kidding?
And then there are times when a New York woman should not shut the fuck up.
Hey. Berger. Berger. You can't just pull that line on me and walk away.
You're obviously still pissed, and I'm sorry but you can't just shut down like this.
We have to be able to say what's on our minds.
If you thought that I had made some kind of mistake I would want you to tell me.
It's fabulous, and you said that to hurt my feelings.
- Fabulous.
- Yes, I can.
I don't know what your problem is, but it has nothing to do with a scrunchy.
- Wait.
What?
Stop.
I want to say something and I want you to listen.
You're a beautiful writer and I loved your book.
And I love you.
And I still think you're very sexy.
And I'm not gonna let you make a joke right now.
Come on.
Saying "I love you" is easy.
What comes next is a little scrunchier.
Harry hadn't called in two days except to say he was sending someone over to pick up his TV.
Just what New York needs.
Another single Jewish girl.
Good morning.
- Not at all.
Oh, my God, where did you get that?
No, I hate you!
In every relationship, there comes a time when you take that next important step.
- Don't worry, they'll love you.
- They'll love you because I love you.
Here we are.
For some couples, that step is meeting the parents.
For me, it's meeting the Prada.
- Hi.
- This is my boyfriend, Jack.
- Yes.
And this is his first time at Prada.
Some couples spend Saturday afternoon shopping.
Other couples spend it sexing.
- What do you think?
Now, that is fabulous.
So how is Claudia?
Cheer up, sweetie.
I may have found you the impossible dreamboat.
Straight, single, and works for Prada.
Now you went and told the truth.
What are we gonna do about it? I say we get all dressed up and go out for drinks Friday night.
I'll wear my new Prada.
- They finally made that mandatory?
And speaking of the theatre, that night Miranda continued performing her one-woman show I'm Not In Love With Steve.
The Knicks overtime turned into Steve's overnighter.
I do, do I? Here.
For you.
It's the "I never say fabulous" fabulous shirt.
Last week I couldn't, but voilà.
It's a check from our publishers.
They sold my book in Paris.
It's an advance from France.
I know, I can't believe it.
Half off at home, big deal in France.
I'm the literary Jerry Lewis.
So, you see, you have to have the "I never say fabulous" fabulous shirt because you are the most fabulous of all the fabulous men who never say "fabulous."
I'm starving.
What looks good?
The next day I met Miranda and little lord Brady for an early evening walk.
If I get tired in about a block, can you push me around in that?
Someone's gonna get hurt.
- Then tell him that, I beg of you.
- No, did you?
- He probably already knows how you feel.
There is no Academy Award for that, just so you know.
My God, Courtney.
Hi.
- Hardly.
Miranda, this is Courtney, my publisher.
Wait.
Why?
- I'm sorry.
Berger never said anything to me.
My God.
And I'm running around buying him shirts and shoving my big check in his face.
- God, I feel awful.
Why did I have to parade in and brag about that check?
- This is not good.
So what now? Should I tell him I know?
Move over, Brady, I'm getting tired.
And in Central Park
Samantha wondered if perhaps she'd judged the arts too quickly.
Is something wrong?
Berger, it's okay.
I know.
About the book option.
I bumped into Courtney a few days ago.
- Because I didn't know if
- Like who?
Miranda was with me, but she
- She's fine, it's no big deal.
No, I meant to her.
I'm sorry.
The shirt and the check.
I feel awful.
I would never
Berger, do you want me to talk to my new editor?
Yes, you will be.
Because you're great.
He grunted.
End of discussion.
- I shouldn't have said anything.
- Berger is not failing.
Okay, yes, there's a bit of a flail.
- Who?
Are the glitterati migrating to Brooklyn?
Why are you doing all this?
And he isn't threatened by you offering to help?
Is it a whole generation or just him?
As women's roles evolve and change, we assume that men's do as well.
There are hundreds upon hundreds of articles written about the new man.
But does this new man really exist?
Perhaps he's just the old man renamed and repackaged by some clever P.R. Woman.
Are the men of today less threatened by a woman's power or are they just acting?
- Jello.
If I'm going to the theater, you're going to the theater.
- Are you all right? What's wrong?
- Why would he ask you do that?
- Put down the icing.
Debbie cannot have your tears.
No way.
Miranda, you can't make those cupcakes and live with yourself.
Move away from the icing.
- Blame the baby.
That's what they're there for.
- Good girl.
God, that's Berger in a cab.
I'm not dressed yet.
Listen to me.
You get out of there, you go home, and I'll call you later, okay?
- Okay.
I love you.
Bye-bye.
That's not a cab.
I'm not really dressed very biker chick.
- Prada and all.
Not to be a total girl about it but I really can't have the helmet hair when there's a red carpet situation.
All right, just don't go fast.
There is a little-known relationship law.
When your man is down and out, you have to get up and on.
I told you not to go fast.
Bullshit.
Couldn't you feel my hands digging into you?
- I was terrified.
I am not gonna die on a bridge so that you can feel like some big man on a bike.
- You know exactly what it means.
And I am sorry, but I'm not sorry I made that money.
I worked really hard for it, and I never thought you would be the type of guy that would have a problem with that.
Are you gonna look at me?
Well, I'll never get on that bike again.
That was for the helmet.
Come on, let's get this over with.
I used to be a party girl.
- No, we're together.
- Jack.
He's a writer, too.
They just do that so that they can get it right for the papers.
That is the worst Barbra Streisand I have ever heard.
Not anymore you don't.
You're sitting with me.
And speaking of "one alone" Charlotte sat in the theater surrounded by couples and in one, clear, crystallized moment she felt what her life would be like with no mans.
Miranda's not coming.
So my friend Tony from Prada is sitting next to you.
After all, what single girl in New York would turn down a gift from Prada?
That night Smith's Full Moon became a sensation.
- He left.
He's coming down with a cold.
- Okay.
Good night.
Maybe we were all acting, all the time.
And tonight I was playing the part of the woman in the great relationship whose boyfriend was coming down with a cold.
In New York city where no good event gets going before 9 pm,
it's a very bad sign when you get invited to something that starts at 9... am.
I'm just going to tell them that before 10 am,
as far as I'm concerned, everybody's guilty.
I figure I'll be out in no time.
Well, aren't you going to write today?
It doesn't mean anything. It was just a question.
No, I didn't mean it like that.
Look, it's early.
And it's also a very bad sign
when a couple is fighting before 9 am.
Here? We have coffee.
Better.
Ok. I love you too. Wish me luck.
Hi. I hope you can help me with this.
I feel terrible but I don't think that I can serve jury duty today.
You see, I work for myself as a freelance writer,
and no one can cover for me.
Meanwhile another woman was having trouble juggling her duties
Along with her coffee, feeling guilty have become a part of Miranda's daily routine.
Charlotte had been guilted into joining the synagogue sisterhood society.
Charlotte may have been there to arrange the cookies
but Barbara, Elaine and Lenore were there to arrange her next marriage.
Meanwhile, Samantha had used her pushiness to parlay her new man's hit off-broadway show
into a hot on-broadway poster.
It's just so weird!
I mean, a mango wasn't even a fruit you can buy into.
I do believe it is the oddest thing you can pull out of a briefcase.
Charlotte, what are you doing?
Why are we hiding?
Honey, I'm so sorry.
Ok.
Ok, then when the guy leaves I'll call you,
you'll come back in and eat with us.
We've been dating a long time. We have contingency plans.
Hey, Charlotte, it's me. Something bad happened.
I see.
Me? No, but I happened to like carnations, especially the pink ones.
In fact, I think they're making a comeback.
I would, however, throw away a guy for wearing dark siders or top-siders or any of the above.
Of course you did, sweetie. You don't say that to her.
Well, it wasn't funny.
Um... yes!
Let's see, um,...
I'm going to start with goat cheese salad and
then I'll have the tuna but, sir,
can you make sure there's no parsley on anything?
I'm just really allergic. Not even a sprinkling ever on the plate.
and, can... actually can, uh,...
can you ask the chef if the marinade for the tuna has parsley in it?
Because if it does I should probably change my order.
Thank you.
What?
I don't like it!
Because when I say that, parsley somehow,
magically appears on the plate and I feel bad
because I have to send it back.
It comes with everything.
Charlotte decided to leave her second bad date of the night.
Whoa, actually, can you go around at 73rd between Park and Madison?Thank you.
I'm in heels.
I didn't put you down.
I'm not telling you what you feel.
What's going on with us?
When did you stop being on my side?
This isn't working.
Are you serious?
Well, nothings haven't been great but...
How long have you been thinking about this?
Wait, you want to take the break starting now?
I thought you would at least come up and we need to talk.
Well, how much time?
What?
I'm supposed to decide what I feel about this with the meter runnung?
Yeah, okay. Go.
Well, thanks for dinner!
I knew we were having problems but a break?
What am I? Some horrible job he needs to get away from?
Oh, come on it's a hop, skip and a week from a break up.
Hey, remember when a break was a good thing?
Spring break, coffee break,...
Now it's break-up.
Break down.
They keep getting worse. What's next?
Do what?
Well, I'm sorry I'm upset.
Well, it's not all frowns.
Berger and I have a lot of good stuff too. It's complicated.
Complicated by the fact that the man had to go all the way to Long Island to think this through.
And the most effective.
I just wish I knew what he was thinking.
I meant Berger.
It's so frustrating. What am I supposed to do?
Just sit around, waiting to find out whether he chooses me?
I'm doing that all day at Jury duty and it sucks!
The next day I got to thinking about trials and trial separations.
In a court room, a jury decides the outcome.
In a relationship, the victims have to decide their own fate.
How can 2 people mired in the mess ever figure it out?
Do we need distance to get close?
And speaking of absolute gay,
Charlotte was on a lunch date with Yenta number 2's son.
Some people are bullied into blind dating
Charlotte was bubbied.
That night the only thing Miranda put to bed was the McKenzie brief.
The next day the verdict was in.
Century 21, the downtown discount store was the best part of jury duty.
Hello.
Ah, you think that's bad? I'm discount shopping.
What are you doing golfing?
Ah, pretty good so far. I found the most unbelievable Anna Molinari dress
and a Dolce Kimono.
Tricks are for kids.
Berger. Why do you ask?
Ah, we're great! Great!
Um... actually we're taking it slow.
Well, we're kind of taking a break.
A little break.
I don't know why I told him. I think I crumbled under questioning.
Well, sometimes a person needs a little space.
Spoken by the man who moved 3,000 miles away.
You know, a break can be a very good thing.
I am very okay with it. In fact...
No, we're not! Berger and I will figure...
Hello?
With an armful of discount clothing, I realized I could no longer discount my feelings.
I decided to rent a car
and drive the distance to get closer to Berger.
I paid 187 dollars to drive 40 feet.
What did I think I was going to do?
Badger my boyfriend into being with me?
I just keep thinking you know if I, if I stick with it,...
just try a little harder...
I mean Berger can be...
threatened and...
insecure and somtimes he shuts down but
but he's also smart and funny like
he made up this thing,...
this, this Holywood kiss thing
whenever we're being pissy with each other
we did this fake Hollywood kiss bit.
That makes us laugh.
I know. It isn't working.
God, I've got to break up with him.
If he ever comes back.
What's wrong with him?
The next day Miranda decided to do something about that.
That night Miranda was there to put Brady to bed.
but there would still be times when she wouldn't be around.
so Miranda found a way to be... a "round".
And at bus stops, all around town
There it was. A frown.
Or as close to a frown as Samantha and her dermatologist doctor Peterson would allow.
A hop, skip and a week later, the industry followed.
Gus Fiansent offered Smith a part of a model / hustler / junkie in his latest movie.
which he happily accepted.
Charlotte knew how silly she sounded
The problem wasn't that David went to Yale.
The problem was... he wasn't Harry.
Charlotte could only hope that one of the baldies was her baldie.
It wasn't a pineapple but it was just as weird.
and there was only one other person who would really appreciate it.
At that moment,
I knew I wasn't ready to let Berger go.
Who is it?
Oh, well, come on up.
When it comes to a trial, you have to listen to the evidence.
But when it comes to the trials of love, you have to listen to your heart.
I didn't know what Berger's verdict would be
but I knew mine.
Hey, Berger. I know things have been bad but I really think...
I want to try to make this work.
Hey, you're never going to believe it. Do you know the mango guy?
He pulled out...
A coconut.
I know!
New York City is a great place to be engaged.
And it's an even better place to be enraged.
You're so busy!
- Boy, do I have news.
- That's great.
Well, it is fabulous.
Berger broke up with me on a Post-it.
Yep.
Read it and weep, my friends.
Yeah, I was, and I should have but he said that he wanted to try to work things out: A.k.a. Leave in the middle of the night.
I remember when breaking up over the phone was considered bad form.
- No.
I am not going to dignify his behavior with a response.
I am not even going to leave him one of those angry answering machine messages.
"Hi, it's me.
You're a dick!"
But it sure felt good saying it right now, even to you.
- Yeah, I'm sorry, too.
That relationship was a complete waste of time.
You might not wanna say that to a woman carrying a loaded Post-it.
Paper covers rock.
Maybe everything does happen for a reason.
If Berger hadn't left me in the most horrible way anyone could ever imagine I wouldn't be free to walk you to your hair appointment.
When it comes to men, you may have had it right all along.
Keep it light.
Don't get too involved.
Don't get too hurt.
You know what? I'm gonna spend as much time mourning this relationship as he spent ending it.
Okay, I'm over it.
Let's go somewhere fantastic tonight and have a fantastic time.
What can we do that would be fantastic? I know.
I'm not that off men.
Listen to me being all hurt.
Look how many men have broken up with you, and you're fine.
"Come to Bed". Wow.
People say everything happens for a reason.
These people are usually women.
And these women are usually sorting through a break-up.
It seems that men can get out of a relationship without even a goodbye.
But apparently, women have to either get married or learn something.
Why are we in such a rush to move from confused to Confucius?
Do we search for lessons to lessen the pain?
Meanwhile, Samantha was at home dressing a man, for a change.
And that was a label Samantha wasn't comfortable wearing.
That night, as Charlotte was deciding what to wear she noticed that everything went with her new engagement ring except her old wedding dress.
Meanwhile, in another closet
- Are you sick?
I don't want to have to resort to this.
But if I have to, I will play the Post-it card.
Because this can't be the day that I was broken up with by a Post-it.
This has to be the day that something else happened.
You are going.
No excuses.
And speaking of no excuses, there they were.
her skinny jeans.
The jeans every woman keeps in the vain hope that someday she'll fit into them again.
- And you look good.
It was lovely.
Hallelujah!
Since people often go to bars to try to get someone into bed it was only a matter of time till someone cut out the middleman and put the beds in bars.
And I thought they were being ironic.
Damn, that always happens to me.
Really?
Or do you just wanna stare at your ass in the mirror?
- That was fast.
- Who's basically a zygote.
Well, I think you may have come to the right place.
Oh, no.
It's Berger's friend.
- In the next bed.
God, I hate New York.
Is there no other club opening tonight?
- What should I do?
No, I can't.
It'll get back to Berger that I acted childish.
Right.
I'll take the high road.
I'll be calm, classy, and just say hello.
- Billy, hi.
- Hi, how are you?
This is kind of uncomfortable but we broke up this morning.
Yeah.
And he was bad in bed.
You look great, Billy.
You know that angry message I didn't wanna leave on Berger's machine? I just left it on his friend.
- I took the lowest possible road.
I told him Berger was bad in bed, which isn't even true.
Two times!
Don't you forget anything?
It just came out.
I need to find a way to erase that message.
Great, now I have to admit that I'm hurt?
That thing I said before terrible and not true.
He was fine in bed.
Great, in fact.
Fireworks, rockets.
I don't even know why I said that.
I'm hurt, okay?
Yes, under normal circumstances they are tough.
And in this case, tougher.
Look, I don't wanna drag you into this but Berger broke up with me on a Post-it.
I know as Berger's friend you can't have a normal reaction but just so you know, the normal reaction has been
Not that I'm going around telling everyone, just some girlfriends.
You know, I'm trying to understand why someone would do that.
- Interesting.
How so?
I assure you, I would have been very understanding.
- Excuse me?
Really?
So now it's our fault?
It's funny you should mention that, Billy, because actually, there is.
You can have the guts and the courtesy to tell a woman to her face that you no longer wanna see her.
Call me crazy but I think that you can make a point of ending your relationship in a manner that does not include an e-mail, a doorman, or a missing persons report.
I think you could all get over your fear of looking like the bad guy and actually have the uncomfortable break-up conversation because here's what:
Avoiding that is what makes you the bad guy.
- And just so you know, Alan
Most women aren't angry, irrational psychos.
We just want an ending to a relationship that is thoughtful and decent and honors what we had together.
So my point, Billy, is this: There is a good way to break up with someone and it doesn't include a Post-it!
You think?
We have to get out of here immediately.
Hi, sorry.
We're leaving.
I just learned you should never go to Bed angry.
Okay, so I'm angry.
So those guys will tell Berger that I'm angry.
I can live with that.
- Do you smell that?
- Let's get high.
Yes, that's exactly what my mind needs: Cloudiness.
I'm still too lucid on the facts of the day and night.
When was the last time you smoked pot?
- Post-it.
Damn those dealers and their summer houses.
They're not strangers.
They're our new friends with pot.
My, when she scores, she scores.
"Drown the Hound."
And I thought they were being ironic.
- Yeah! Go get 'em.
- Peanut shells.
- I don't know.
Do peanut shells have to happen for a reason?
Look at them, so happy.
Hey, sweetie, what's wrong?
But if you hadn't married Trey, you wouldn't have met Harry.
You can do whatever you want.
You know, she got engaged last night.
She's getting married to a wonderful man.
And look at this rock.
Got the camera.
- All right, everyone say "bride."
Finally, Charlotte's inner judge was silenced by some very loud bachelorettes.
That's the secret of the skinny jeans.
It's not so much a state of behind as a state of mind.
And even though Samantha had designed it herself she realized "no one special" was another label she didn't care for.
And to prove that Smith was no one special to her she kissed someone even less special.
Unfortunately, he was someone special to a somewhat drunk person.
- Oh, my God!
Okay, I get it.
Angry women can be scary.
This night is turning into a total bust.
Oh, my God, I love you! Where did you get that?
- All right.
Men are bullshit.
Being someone's girlfriend
- No good can come of it.
Wow! This is strong weed.
As I contemplated the fact that my relationship had gone to pot, literally I realized no high or low would make this day any day other than the day I got broken up with by a Post-it.
Hear that? It's midnight.
The official end to what will now be known as the day I got arrested for smoking a doobie.
I said doobie.
This is great!
Okay, I know what I learned from my Berger relationship.
Wait a minute, I just had it.
What?
Alright!
I might never find a lesson in why Berger and I split but at least, for the moment, there was a banana split.
My career had reached new heights, literally.
An editor at New York magazine thought I would be the perfect person to write about the ultimate challenge for swingers.
The flying trapeze.
That's not supportive!
Please strap on anything that'll keep me from plummeting to my death.
I'm ready to go to the bar.
Does everyone say that?
- You're queen of the world.
Two hours later, I was hooked.
Are you watching?
I'm about to try a catch.
No.
That day I didn't get caught but Samantha's zipper did.
This is one of the frustrating things about living alone.
There's not always somebody around to rip your clothes off.
What she meant was "undo me."
But two birds with one stone.
And in Central Park a photographer attempted to catch two lovebirds sitting on a stone.
A lesser man might have told Charlotte to take a flying leap but Harry loved her too much.
And speaking of tacky
Forget it.
You do not need to become friends with the new girlfriend.
It's unnatural, uncomfortable, insincere and rife with ulterior motive.
- No, I'm just being supportive.
Speaking of falling, I tried the trapeze yesterday for that piece that I'm writing.
I do not.
You've seen my shoes.
At first, but then I couldn't do a catch.
I had to let go and reach for the guy, who was very cute, and I still couldn't do it.
- Hey, Harry.
- Hi, how are you?
- Good.
I'm kind of busy because I have to do a flying trapeze thing.
- Thank you.
Yeah, and in town for a week.
What's the point?
But it's like whatever happens, there's an expiration date.
- It's expiration dating.
Please, I'm too old for a fling.
I can barely do a swing.
If you'll excuse me, I have to go home so I can write about the fact that I couldn't do a catch.
When you're young, your whole life is about the pursuit of fun.
Then you grow up and learn to be cautious.
You could break a bone or a heart.
You look before you leap, and sometimes you don't leap at all because there's not always someone there to catch you.
And in life there's no safety net.
When did it stop being fun and start being scary?
I decided it was time to leave fear behind and have some fun.
- I can't.
I can't.
Samantha, a fan of expiration dating was about to enjoy one of the benefits of dating an actor.
Location, location, location.
That night we all gathered at Charlotte's casual rehearsal dinner.
You're like a lint tray.
What's happening back here?
- Seriously?
- Did you see her?
- And?
Maybe you should just meet her and get it over with.
Apparently I wasn't the only one who had trouble letting go.
Hey.
What's happening there?
Still no.
Nothing's casual anymore.
Not even when it says so on the invitation.
I decided they were right.
It was time to get back in the swing of things.
Hey, how are you?
I'm sorry I never called.
What would that entail, you think?
Squirting flower and nose application.
Maybe I would have a fling.
After all, how bad could it be?
That night Howie and I had sex like we were teenagers again.
Meaning he had no idea what he was doing, and I didn't say anything.
Meanwhile, Samantha was banging around as well.
That's the thing about getting used to a man.
There's always a catch.
Not just her wedding day, but The New York Times.
Hello?
What?
Hang on a minute.
As I feared, my fling had become a pain in the neck.
Yeah.
There's a little something but maybe it's just my paper.
And your paper.
Clearly, Charlotte was bent out of shape, and so was I.
Oh, God, don't make me laugh.
It hurts.
That's my official story, and it's partially true.
But this is a sex-sprain.
- No, it was not good for me.
It was jackrabbit sex.
You know, pound, pound
- No, they aren't.
It's bad.
It's basically masturbating with a woman instead of your hand.
I don't enjoy it.
Hi.
- I better
Thanks.
- What?
I don't know.
I'm pretty tired from last night.
Okay, we'll see.
No.
No, the thing is you're just visiting, so I figured it was a one-night kind of thing.
Just fun.
As one man slipped a ring on one woman was still trying to slip a bracelet off.
Sorry.
It's a back spasm.
I'm sorry.
It seemed to Charlotte that the wedding had gone from Jewish law to Murphy's Law.
Charlotte, are you okay?
That's not true.
Although I only saw most of it from here down.
- You're not cursed.
You're married.
You just got married.
You already had the perfect wedding and the marriage, not so perfect.
I think this is a good sign.
I think the worse the wedding, the better the marriage.
- That's good! That's a good sign!
No, I'm trying to get you to open your eyes, because you're missing it.
- Everything! You're missing your wedding.
You have a wonderful man who loves you who'll be there to catch you when you fall.
Do you know how special that is?
I would love to find a man who's strong enough to catch me.
So let's get to that reception, so you can fall on a cake or something.
- Okay?
- Perfect still, of course.
Oh, Christ!
Are you okay?
- The ceremony?
It was a Mazel Tov cocktail.
Oh, yeah.
He's the regular Jerk du Soleil.
Do you think everyone knows I slept with him?
And, of course, this being a wedding, there was one more catch to go.
- Oh, you were fabulous.
Okay, now you're done.
It wasn't a perfect catch and neither was mine.
But I survived because I have a good safety net.
The single New Yorker's weekend is all about buying.
The latest Vogue, fresh flowers and gifts for previously-single New Yorkers.
Hi.
I'm here for the Welker wedding registry.
I'll take the Newport soup ladle and three Bimini steak knives.
The baby Peck list?
The burpy blanket.
Okay, what is left?
Fine, I'll take four espresso cups and a pepper grinder.
Yeah, okay, the Little Me activity chair.
That night, Stanford and I were invited to celebrate the arrival of baby boy Bronson latest son of Kyra and Chuck.
- Sorry.
Hey, what you got in there, Stanny?
Thanks to you, I was left with the Little Me chair.
I played that album all through the fifth grade.
I wanted to run as fast as the wind.
But this is an outfit.
Jeez, if I'd known I was gonna be shoeless I would have compensated with a big hat or something.
Okay.
Well, now I'm so teeny I might bump my head on the coffee table.
Our hostess, Kyra Bronson, had made a name for herself in the early '90s taking pictures of anorexic actresses on beds at the Chelsea Hotel.
Now she took pictures of fat babies in buckets.
We come from the East 70s, bearing gifts.
Where is the blessed child?
- Thank you.
Uptown, Miranda was putting her foot down in her co-op board meeting.
And suddenly, Miranda wasn't so bored at her board meeting.
While Miranda was playing a game of pick-up
Charlotte was picking up as well.
Charlotte knew when Harry moved in, he would unpack his bags.
She wasn't expecting the teabags.
One tax return and a half hour of eyelash-batting later
The unspoken thing was that Robert was cute and Miranda was horny.
You liar.
You two know everything.
No, we've had a swell time.
It's just It's midnight, he's gay.
He has to start his night.
- Anyway, congrats on the baby.
- Okay, bye.
We might have been one foot out the door, but my shoes appeared to have already left.
- Was there another room for the shoes?
- Mine seem to have gone missing.
Actually, they weren't sandals.
They were Manolos.
They say you shouldn't judge until you've walked a mile in someone else's shoes.
I made it six blocks.
The next day, over dessert I was still not over the fact that my shoes had deserted me.
These were new Manolos.
I hadn't even done a full lap around the party.
I don't play favorites with my shoes but these were very special.
Someone size 7 with excellent taste.
We had to for their kids.
Apparently we drag things in on our heels that make children sick.
Actually, I kept waiting for the mortification that never came.
She said they might turn up and sent me home.
Stop.
I'm gonna cry in my flan.
So that's it? They're just gone? Boo-hoo?
- I can't ask her to pay for my shoes.
I know.
I'm not saying it.
Hey, so how goes the big matrimonial move-in?
Oh, great.
Now I've lost my shoes and my appetite.
It was the perfect first conversation.
Minus the pock.
For Miranda, Robert was just what the doctor ordered.
I was in the neighborhood.
I thought you might want these back.
- Any news on my shoes?
So, this Jennifer
Did you ever find her sandals?
Well, if she took my shoes, she would have left her sandals.
Just being a bit of a shoe detective here.
No, you don't have to do that.
- Okay.
485
Well, that's what they cost.
Okay, this is an awkward conversation.
You know how much Manolos are.
You used to wear Manolos.
I have a real life.
Yes, but it wasn't my choice to take them off.
She shoe-shamed me.
I left there covered in shame.
But she isn't, that's the thing.
She's become this whole other person.
It's like she's had two caesarians and a lobotomy.
No, it's not about the money.
I don't care about that.
I'm talking about a woman's right to shoes.
Why did she have to shame me?
How are they today?
Hey, speaking of handsome black men, have you spotted any more of Dr. Knicks?
Is it bad that my life is filled with shoes and not children?
When we were young Marlo Thomas sang to us about accepting each other and our differences.
But then we got older and started singing a different tune.
We stopped celebrating each other's life choices and started qualifying them.
Is acceptance really such a childish concept?
Or did we have it right all along?
When did we stop being free to be you and me?
The next morning, Charlotte learned just how free the real Harry could be.
Apparently, it took next to nothing to make Harry feel comfortable.
Charlotte felt completely trapped.
She wanted to see Harry be himself in her home.
She just didn't need to see that much of him.
Meanwhile, I decided to bare all to Kyra.
- Hey, Kyra, it's Carrie.
Listen I feel weird about what happened the other day.
We've been friends a really long time and I just want to clear the air.
Well, I didn't.
I've been thinking a lot about it, and
You know what, I am Santa.
I did a little mental addition and over the years, I have bought Kyra an engagement gift, a wedding gift.
Then there was the trip to Maine for the wedding, three baby gifts.
In toto, I have spent over $2,300 celebrating her choices.
And she is shaming me for spending a lousy $485 on myself? Yes, I did the math.
And if I don't ever get married or have a baby, what? I get bupkis? Think about it.
If you are single, after graduation there isn't one occasion where people celebrate you.
- No, we all have birthdays.
That's a wash.
I am talking about the single gal.
Hallmark doesn't make a congratulations-you-didn't-marry- the-wrong-guy card.
And where's the flatware for going on vacation alone?
No, no.
I'm thrilled to give you gifts to celebrate your life.
I just think it stinks that single people are left out of it.
So the moral of the story appears to be: Until I get married, I won't be seeing nothing from Kyra.
- How's the pistachio?
Meanwhile, Samantha was trying to have a working lunch.
And that was all Samantha had to hear.
Charlotte realized there was something grosser than teabags all over her house.
Her husband's teabags all over her new white couch.
That night, I decided I couldn't wait for a ring.
And so I gave someone else one.
Hi, it's Carrie Bradshaw.
I wanted to let you know that I'm getting married.
To myself.
And I'm registered at Manolo Blahnik.
So thanks.
Bye.
One giant step for me, one small step for single womankind.
It was my very first wedding present.
The fact is, sometimes it's hard to walk in a single woman's shoes.
That's why we need really special ones now and then.
To make the walk a little more fun.
I didn't go to my high school reunion.
So when my high-school sweetheart called me for a reunion I was curious to see if he looked like the boy I used to make out with in front of my locker.
Actually, he looked better.
My God, Jeremy!
Wow! You look great!
God, I'm so glad you called.
How are you?
I heard you married somebody that you met in business school.
- Nope.
Wide open.
My high school boyfriend spoiled me for life.
Oh, the Pacer! Oh, man!
- Great.
Yeah, maybe.
But my fictional plans fell through so I'm available.
Miranda had no plans that night so she was thrilled when her cute, new neighbor stopped by.
Miranda wasn't sure if it was a charity game or just charity.
I didn't even ask what you were doing in Connecticut.
Well, this is my place.
- Yeah, I love it here.
- I know.
It's very unclear.
- And we've kissed.
- Hours.
So what's one more kiss?
It was a romantic, hot summer night followed by a miserable, hot summer day which was the fourteenth miserable, hot summer day in a row.
- Don't they know who you are?
Speaking of high school, I saw my high-school sweetheart and I think I might like him.
Again.
- Is that crazy?
Okay, let's not jump the gun.
It was the best date I've had in a long time and I wasn't even thinking it was a date.
- When he kissed me good night
It was wild.
Because I actually remembered what it felt like to kiss him.
No!
- We never went all the way.
Because we were kids.
We wanted to wait.
And now, I think we've waited long enough.
Will you stop? He doesn't even live in New York.
He lives in Denver.
- Or tragic.
Seriously.
If I had the guy in high school what have I been doing for the past 20 years?
I broke up because I thought, "There must be better guys out there.
" Turns out, there aren't.
That night I started thinking about my retro relationship.
Since high school, most women I know have acquired much better taste in clothes, hairstyles, and food.
But what about in men? Maybe we were better off when we thought less and kissed more.
Have we graduated past our ability to find true love? When it comes to matters of the heart, did we have it right in high school?
Samantha was too cool to belong to any clubs in high school so she refused to believe that any club was too cool for her now.
Especially since New York in August is not cool at all.
Since they didn't seem to know who she was at the Soho House she figured she could be Annabelle Bronstein.
The next day, Samantha tested the waters with her fake ID.
Meanwhile, a fight was about to break out in the cafeteria.
But this time, Cafeteria was a trendy restaurant in Chelsea.
It was Friday night, it was the big game and Miranda was jealous of a cheerleader.
Two hours later, the game ended and Miranda felt like the loser.
Meanwhile, I invited Jeremy to come over and watch a movie which in high school was code for, "Come over and make out."
And happily, it still was.
I think you should stay.
I think we should go all the way.
- We never did.
And now we can, and your mother won't walk in with her laundry and her TaB.
That's the worst thing you can hear from someone you really like.
No, actually, that's the worst thing you can hear.
I wanted a man who would commit, not a man who was committed.
Apparently, we have to be more specific.
No, he's voluntary.
He says it's not really a mental institution it's a therapeutic community.
- Juno-Spears.
- On a first date.
And even when you get the guy, you never know what fun surprise might be revealed.
What? What?
Charlotte, like all girls, learned at an early age that the only way to get rid of information you don't want to have is to pass it on.
Oh, my God! Is this real?
- I got it from Miranda.
Charlotte was still a cheerleader for love.
But like the Knicks, her team was having a bad season.
- She's got a case of the Madonnas.
On any given day, there are a lot of versions of "crazy" right here in New York.
Today, Annabelle Bronstein had multiple personalities and at least two accents.
This cheered Miranda up immediately.
- How are you? Do you want to come in?
No, I think it's great what you're doing
- Well, it's a tough thing to slip in.
- Do they have pilates?
- Right.
- You make a very good case.
How about "my high-school boyfriend who was the best kisser ever"?
That night we went all the way.
And we weren't the only ones.
The next afternoon, my other crazy boyfriend stopped by.
- So you talked about it?
- Maybe he was embarrassed.
- Stanny, really?
- When is it?
I can't.
I have to visit my boyfriend at the asylum.
He wants me to see the place for myself.
It's supposed to be like Canyon Ranch.
- I know.
- But I like him.
Who are we to say, he's got issues, he's getting help? Usually, that's considered a good thing.
It's New York.
Everybody's insane.
- Yes.
At least he was honest about it.
Apparently, the Juno-Spears Center was harder than the Soho House to get into.
Or out of.
Even as a visitor, I could see how this was a very relaxing place to get away to.
- I don't really hike.
- Really?
I started to think maybe the Juno-Spears Center should be mandatory for New Yorkers.
Like the Hamptons or Fire Island.
I've never been.
It might.
With pilates.
- You're definitely the sanest person here.
Eight to ten months?
- I loved seeing you.
Ironically, it was the sanest breakup I ever had.
- Oh, my God! I love this song.
Thank you very much.
Believe me, I'm glad to be back with the normal people.
You know the craziest thing of all? I somehow thought that after everything I've been through I might end up with my high-school boyfriend.
I don't think my story's going to get tied up like that.
- And taken away.
Okay, no more jokes.
I might be dating him in eight to ten months.
Why don't I get some punch?
So, maybe it won't look the way you thought it would look in high school.
But it's good to remember love is possible.
Anything is possible.
This is New York.
There are some New York nights that are monumental, gigantic, historic.
Others, are just big.
Bet you can't get your steaks like this in your little Napa Village,
now can ya?
Well, what we lack in livestock,
we make up for in cabs.
Fine, you win, and I don't wanna fight about it.
So, what's on your New York agenda?
Making some deals, breaking some hearts?
That's not your real hair?
What?
Uptown, there was a different kind of dinner being prepared.
With less cholesterol and no tears.
Miranda's new neighbor, Doctor Robert
had quicky become her new boyfriend.
Doctor of all trades.
Truth be told, Miranda had never taken a personal day in her entire career.
But then again, no one had ever made her enchiladas before.
Adding insult to injury.
That's horrifying.
I will continue to be horrified by that story all day long.
Because you've been through a lot with him.
Some people just get under your skin and stay there.
- When I say Big the other night,..
Yeah, he's here for a little heart thing.
No.
And you're going to feel incredibly bad in a minute.
He's here because he's having heart surgery.
No, it's ok.
It's actually a fairly routine procedure. They found a blockage.
I'm sorry.
This is exactly what happened the other night when he told me.
I know, I know he's gonna be fine.
But,
what is going on with me?
Bitsy Von Muffling had recentlymarried cabaret singer, Bobby Fine
known to everyone but Bitsy as the gayest gay man alive.
My goodness. Look at you.
From eastern medicine on the Upper West Side
Hello?
to western medicine on Upper East Side.
How are you?
Asshole.
I don't know.
Hospitals scare me.
It's a safe assumption.
I'm sorry. Just ignore me.
No, no, I'm not. He's not my husband.
Meanwhile, Samantha welcomed Smith back from his movie location
with open arms.
Later, without directions,
Smith tried the most intimate hand position of all.
What happened to you?
Oh my god, that's my biggest fear. How did that happen?
You mean to tell me that Smith is a hand-holder?
And to think he once served us food.
Well, it sounds to me like he missed you too.
Hence the deviant behavior.
Like it or not, that little tadpole is wide open in there for you.
Life's short,
you might wanna consider holding his hand.
Ok, it happened again. The crying.
When I visited Big at the hospital.
That's three times now.
I finally figured out that the only way to have Big in my life was to
block oput certain feelings, and now
every feeling that I've ever had is bubbling up all over the place
with nowhere to go except my eye balls.
Nothing. There's nothing to do.
Big is who he is. He's never gonna change.
He's limited and I acept that.
So, he'll go back to Napa, and I'll go back to not crying.
The end.
Honey, if it hurts so much, why are we going shopping?
Well, come on then. Move that booty.
If New York City's signature fruit is the apple,
then its signature sound is the ambulance siren.
It seems like all day, every day people are getting hurt.
And the whole city has to hear about it.
But what about the injuries that don't get a siren.
Whether you're falling into the hole in the street
or possibly falling back in love.
Just how dangerous is an open heart?
Hi, can I please be connected to room 817?
When you weren't at the morgue,
I figured you were at the Four Seasons, and here you are.
Oh, I'm sorry.
You must have me confused with someone else.
I'm Candy, your Candy striper.
I'm in the union.
- I know the rules.
This isn't about stripping, it's about striping.
Oh, Candy's got a whole bag full of PG fun in here.
Starting with
dominos.
Classic
- and day glow.
Nobody wins with that kind of attitude.
Meanwhile across town,
another caregiver has taken precautions.
Steve might have gotten knocked out the other night,
but Miranda had no idea his girlfriend was a knock-out.
As Miranda and Steve continued needling each other on the playground,
Dr. Mao was busy needling Charlotte in his office.
And this time, she was determined to drown out the voices in her head.
Unfortunately, she couldn't drown out the voices on the street.
When Charlotte opened her mind to Chinese medicine,
she didn't expect a visit from the Cuban Liberation Front.
Charlotte was beginning to think that the solution to her problem
wasn't finding her center,
but finding some earplugs.
And that's how Samantha lost her virginity to Smith.
Hey, I'm doing all the heavylifting here, you're sitting there like a log.
Oh, excuses, excuses.
Well, that's true, This is really more your generation's game,
whereas I came of age in the parcheesi era.
Oh, you're already thinking about your next birthday?
Yes, save me a baked potato, I'll meet you there.
Are you ok?
Oh my god, you're burning up.
Here come on, let's get you in bed.
Uh-huh, ok.
Well, it's down to 101.
Well, that's good to hear.
Right.
So, I'll just keep doing what I'm doing.
Ok, thank you so much, doctor.
Well, he thinks you're gonna be fine.
Is this wash cloth still cold?
Good.
Nah, I'm just doing my job.
I don't know.
It took the best heart surgeon in New York,
but Big's heart was finally unblocked.
In fact, it was wide open.
The next morning by the light of day,
both injured parties were rebounding nicely.
It turned out that Dr. Mao was a miracle worker.
Because in just two short sessions,
he taught Charlotte to block out all the New York noise she didn't need to hear.
Hey.
How long have you been up?
How are you feeling?
- Let's see.
It was a shift imperceptible to anyone but me.
But I knew Big's heart had closed again.
Maybe it would reopen in another five years, maybe it wouldn't.
But I knew myself well enough to know that that's not enough.
Hey, I'm gonna order breakfast. What do you want?
For the first time all week,
I didn't feel like crying.
Life's too short.
Okay. Come on let's hurry.
- Oh.
When Charlotte and I heard that there was a woman in Chelsea not talking or eating,
We were there in a New York minute.
And she's doing this for how long?
It gets worse?
Good for her. So Best-e's for lunch?
Well girlfriend needs to move a comb through her hair.
She has company.
There's a man over there staring at me.
Over there.
Oh.
He's not there.
Okay that's him again.
Good.
I'm not very arty.
Oh please.
There are depressed women all over New York doing the exact same thing as her
and not calling it art.
I mean, if you put a phone up on that platform,
it's just a typical Friday night waiting for some guy to call.
And frankly, I don't buy the whole 24 hours not eating thing.
I bet if anyone bothered to come down here three in the morning,
she wouldn't even be up there.
She'd be around the corner having a Big Mac.
Why do you think she has the life ladders?
To keep her from running out for a snack.
What do you mean?
I'm Carrie Bradshaw.
That night over at new couple central.
There they were. The sweetest words you can ever say.
In the sweetest way you can ever say them.
Turns out Miranda didn't like surprises as much as she thought.
Wow. That's wonderful.
I need more information.
Because?
Oh.
Now was it the fact that he said it on a cookie or that he said it period?
Well.. I didn't wanna be the one to have to tell you this about him
but... he's perfect. I'm sorry.
If your best friend can't tell you who will?
Oh. Brady is one year old.
And yet I haven't aged a day.
I'm not coming if there's a clown.
Good. Nothing scarier than a clown.
- We're gonna be four. Thanks.
What are you getting?
Hey. Have you ever heard of that artist Alexander Patrovski?
I met him yesterday.
We met at a gallery and he was odd.
What?
One lazy Wednesday afternoon later.
Hello.
Wrong number sorry.
Hello.
Yes I'm sorry too. Wrong number.
Yes?
Sir. I can not understand you.
Oh. I'll get her. Hold on.
Carrie.
Oh no. That was my sister.
She's visiting.
Okay.
Excuse me?
Well. I'm sticking to my guns.
You're not serious.
You're expecting me to get out of bed
and go meet you at some art gallery at 3 am?
Not 3. Let's say one.
1 a. m. at a mysterious place?
I don't know what this means.
It was a joke.
Hello again.
Harry. Hi. What's wrong?
What happened?
How is she?
No, you did the right thing.
How are you?
Hi. This is awful. I'm so sorry.
It's true. Shall I get you some mint tea?
How about that?
Okay. She'll understand.
Okay we need to divide and conquer. What's going on?
Who's mouths is it flying out of?
They're fictional.
He said it on a cookie
Do you love him?
Well.
Stop. It's too late to ruin your life.
The only thing you're gonna ruin tonight is your night and mine.
I was kidding.
Okay listen. Get a good night sleep see how you feel tomorrow.
Turn off Jules and Mimi and go to bed.
You've seen enough love for one night.
- Good night.
I blame Valentine's Day.
Hundreds upon hundreds of cards all decreeing you're the one.
Just imagine the hundreds and hundreds of wrenching late night phone calls
all over this one idea.
And it's not just with love.
It seems we're always looking for that one thing to make our lives complete.
That job, that chance, that family.
I couldn't help but wonder,
when will waiting for the one be done?
Samantha was never a woman who looked for the one
but today, she found one.
A gray one.
She figured a box in the hand was better than one in the bush.
Turns out, left on too long, nice and simple was not so nice.
I was told there'd be no clowns.
Nothing scarier than a clown.
All right well you'll have to wait till I get something to eat. I'm starving.
Okay.
What is so important that it couldn't wait.
In a food?
It's not a disaster.
It's all part of getting older. You said that yourself.
Smith is well aware of the fact that you're older.
No man wants to fuck grandma's pussy.
Oh god. This is a child's birthday party.
- Bye.
It gets worse?
- Okay.
You have ten seconds and then I'm leaving. Ten nine...
- Five. Four. Three.
- Two. One.
Turns out, there is something scarier than a clown.
Three weeks later, Miranda and Steve got their wish.
They were back together.
From a one year-old's birthday party
to a one a. m. dinner party.
Hi. I'm here to meet Alexander Patrovski.
Don't you mean good morning?
Oh. I'm just wearing my pajamas.
Sorry. I don't wear your watch.
I find that someone will always tell me.
1:03 did you say?
Well. It's very red downstairs.
So. What's all this?
What exactly is aspic? Kind of a meet jell-o?
Do you always eat this late at night?
You work all night painting?
I have a bit of an art question.
- As you know Alexander.
- Oh.
Alexander.
Alec.
Alexander.
So, I'm a writer. I write a column for a newspaper.
What are you drinking?
In that case, I'll have a vodka martini please.
Thank you.
Well Bob,
this is the latest I've been up in quite a while.
I even had to take a little disco nap.
Remember those?
That must have been an amazing time.
What is there to remember?
Yes.
There is one moment in every relationship
where you risk letting someone know the real you.
How long have you lived in New York?
Honest?
Okay. You are way too Russian.
You get a girl out of bed to tell her you like pain?
It's two in the morning. Lighten up Bob.
Don't you know any jokes?
More meat?
- I'm not really a fruit person.
- Oh god.
At exactly 3:01, we pulled up in front of the gallery to see if Art was alive and awake.
Oh my purse. I left it in the cab.
Shh.
Of all my odd dates, this was number one.
Taxi!
Oh. Where's he going?
Oh. Well. Thanks for dinner.
I thought you lived way downtown.
Well you can take the boy out of Studio54
but you can't take Studio54 out of the boy.
And he tasted like black cherries.
A single gal spends most of her life searching for the perfect male.
And out of the blue, it arrives.
Aleksandr Petrovsky was a rather famous artist with whom I had
one rather infamous date.
It's been three whole weeks.
I thought you died or something.
You'll get over it.
You're a big boy.
- Hmm, Holland??
To the land of the wooden shoes, no.
No, no, no.
You don't have a mouse trap in there, do you?
I was being silly.
You know, in the cartoons, when they put their hands and the thing..
Second only to the search of the perfect male,
is the search for the perfect fragrance.
Ladies, I'm taking a lover.
Yes, a lover. Aleksandr Petrovsky.
I beg your pardon.
My lover is not old.
He is worldly and wise and very sexy.
Very.
Yesterday I almost did it with him on a park bench in front of children.
Common decency.
Well, that and the fact that I'm not lover ready.
I need a little bikini waxage.
He is in his lover perfect, early fifties.
Oh, you rhyme now.
And where did you get his picture?
Not boyfriend, lover.
Uncomfortable with my taking a lover?
Ah, no, the only place this is going is Loverville.
Oh, please, half the time, I can't even understand him.
We have nothing in common.
He's in and out of Europe.
Yes, but in a much less obvious sounding way.
No, you need something classic, clean.
Oh, Miranda and Steve sitting in a tree K.I.S.S.I.N.G, first comes..
Well, actually first comes baby.
Oh great.
Now I have to spend the rest of the day smelling like..
- You bastard.
Ok, let's go.
I suspect he already likes the way I smell.
If Miranda and Steve had a fragrance,
it would be called Perfection.
If Miranda, Steve, and Robert, her ex and neighbor
had a fragrance, it wold be called Less Than Perfection.
In fact, Awful, Uncomfortable, and Terrible.
Can I ask you a question?
No, that's not the question.
Are you Russian?
Yes, I was wondering how do you say hello in Russian?
- Zdravstvuite.
And uh, how do you say thank you?
- Spasibo.
The only thing more uncomfortable than a bikini wax,
is an elevator ride with an ex.
Luckily, Miranda had figured out a way to avoid that.
Unfortunately, Robert had also.
Wednesday night, after dinner,
I took the express elevator to Loverville.
Spasibo.
Spasibo.
Zdravstvuite.
You have the entire floor?
- Spasibo. - Zdravstvuite.
That's a lovely story.
Very nice, if you like that whole window sky thing.
Why don't you show me upstairs?
My Russian may have been shaky,
but I discovered I spoke lover very well.
Turns out, I'd found a sweet bed and breafast in Loverville.
Good morning.
Um, where?
In the light of day, everything looked completely different.
Um, Regular.
I hope I'm not in the way.
But you, Aren't you gonna eat?
Oh, yeah. Right.
There I was having pancakes at IHOP
the international house of Petrovsky's.
And they just went on about their business totally unfazed.
What?
No, no, no, you're right.
You're right.
thewhole thing was so choreographed.
No, he knew exactly what he was doing.
So Smith no moves.
Of what?
My grand slam breakfast?
You've got yourself a man, a real powerplayer.
We're not talking about me anymore, are we?
He's almost thirty.
The pancakes?
Delicious, exactly what I wanted, I couldn't get enough.
Oh, delicious, exactly what I wanted, I couldn't get enough.
So, how many pancakes do you think that kitchen has seen?
In the cold, harsh reality of daylight,
I knew it didn't matter.
But in the colder, harsher reality of a woman
who just slept with someone she likes, it did.
Google dot com showed many many listings
on the art of Aleksandr Petrovsky, and one
on his many many women.
According to certain scientists, whenever a woman
has sex, her body produces a chemical which
causes her to emotionally attach.
This chemical may also account for the series of
terrifying questions that involuntarily pop into
our minds after just one casual tryst.
Questions like does he like me, will he call again,
and the classic, where is this all going?
When it comes to the men, even when we try to
keep it light, how do we wind up in the dark?
The party may have been all wrong but it was being hosted by Richard.
And it was exactly the certain something that Samantha was missing.
I mean where can this possibly go?
Well, that was before I slept with him, now, not so sure.
No, ridiculous, and according to my new best friend google dot com,..
The man has dated every woman in New York from 1977 until, well, until last Wednesday.
And who knows how many pancakes he's making for other ridiculous women around the world.
Oh god, listen to me, and I've only slept with him once.
Ok, let's get blind.
I'm there.
No, thinking you can take a lover is embarrassing.
This is helping people.
Oh, that's European code, it's him.
Should I answer it?
Ok.
Hello
Hi. How's Amsterdam.
What?
I can, I can't hear you.
Oh you know what, I need better reception.
I'm gonna go right over there.
Don't go away.
Hi.
Tomorrow night?
What?
- Bad reception, yes.
- Yes, I'm free.
- I'm free.
- Yes, I will be there.
- Hello?
Sweetie?
And there in the dark, Charlotte realized
she had no idea where she was going in
Barney's or in real life.
but sometimes, even if you're not sure of your
direction, you can find your way to something wonderful.
Don't they have these over there in the..
I swear I looked and looked and then I thought best if she finds me.
I'm meeting him tomorrow, cute, huh?
Ok, ok.
Turns out Petrovsky wasn't the only one with the international house.
When it came to Robert,
Steve thought it was kinder to leave Miranda in the dark.
Richard may have, but Samantha haven't.
Even in the dark, Smith could still see Samantha.
And for the very first time, she saw him.
It was at that moment I realized I wasn't really comfortable in Loverville.
I'm not that kind of google.
I just wanted to say thank you.
I'm gonna go.
Um.
This has been really lovely but I don't think I'm cut out for it.
The pancakes and the other ladies,
it's just not for me.
There are pancakes but no other ladies.
Why me?
You make a good breakfast.
It's too soon to tell.
In autumn, New Yorkers treat every nice day as if it could be their last.
Some couples have to say their I don'ts before they can ever imagine saying their I dos.
80 blocks and a world away,
I was enjoying a different kind of happy hour at Aleksandr Patrovsky's.
That's pretty. What is that?
What? No you didn't.
I know. I can't even look at you all right now.
I'm so embarrassed.
Yes and I live in New York City Circa now.
I think it's romantic if someone offers me a sit on the subway.
Phone sex does not count.
Well. There was one more thing but if you I tell you,
it will be the ick heard around the world.
You know the song that he wrote for me?
Well, it had a name.
La femme avec les yeux lumineux.
And I swear to you while he was playing it, I floated up out of my body
and I was on the ceiling looking down at myself thinking¡¦
come on!'
Oh my god.
And from looking to loving.
The only thing harder than choosing a spot for a wedding when you hate weddings
Is choosing a wedding gift for a friend who hates weddings.
- Can't believe Miranda's getting married.
And too bridy.
Fine. We'll get the dish.
If you get married and leave me all alone, I will kill you.
Is this the part we're not gonna like?
Since when?
And that's your source of reality?
I can't believe you went to Planet Hollywood.
- Mine?
No.
A few days later the rain came.
Poem?
And so did the poetry.
That is some serious stuff.
No. It's beautiful.
How about I read you a little bit of my favorite poetry?
Cocktails at Tiffany's calls for classic charm.
Oscar De la renta sleeveless silk five.
Full skirted dress with black-patented leather bow belt.
Now that is pure poetry.
Oscar? You call him Oscar?
Look. I'm sorry. Perhaps we were not properly introduced.
I write a column based on the assumption that romance is either dead or just phony.
No. Not at all. I'm the one that feels like a phony.
Frankly, I'm just not used to these grand gestures.
No. No they have not.
I'm in over my head. Where are you?
So. Yesterday the Russian read me a Russian poem.
- But you know, in English.
No. And this might sound crazy but I don't think it's an act.
I think he actually means it.
You're right. He's a selfish pig.
Okay I'll tell him that. I can't tell him that.
And let me ask you something. If you're so anti-romance,
why are you having a wedding at all? Why not just go down to city hall
and get it over with?
No. The opposite.
My god Miranda, you're my cynical touchstone.
Do you promise to still be cynical even after you're married?
One of the great things about living in New York City
is that you don't have to sugar coat your feelings.
But have New York women settled for a sugar free existence as well?
We accept Tasti-Delight instead of real ice cream.
E-mails instead of love songs.
Jokes instead of poetry.
It's no wonder that faced with the real thing,
we can't stomach it.
Is it something we could learn to digest or
have we become romance intolerant?
it was Harry's version of a serenade.
And Charlotte ate it right up.
Downtown, in the name of boob job research,
Samantha decided to go where the biggest crop will be on display.
Some were little boobs,
some were big boobs,
some were ridiculously big boobs.
And then there were the two biggest boobs of all. Right beside her.
Meanwhile, back in the 18th century,
Oh. I'm sorry. Is this a formal sleepover?
Man, I was this close to throwing on my ball gown but I ignored my instincts.
- All right, I'll go home and change.
If I had been on a romance free diet, this seemed like a good time to binge.
When you splurge on romantic 7 course meal,
you generally want to remember every bite.
There was the soup course, the dessert course,
and all the other yummy courses in between.
Harry and Charlotte had romance shooting out of them every 20 minutes.
For the rest of the night.
Surviving a night of food poisoning together wasn't the stuff of great romance
but it was the stuff of lasting love.
Meanwhile, a funny thing happened on the way to the opera.
It was the most romantic moment.
No. It's too much. I'm an American.
You gotta take it down a nudge.
- No, he's got it.
- Absolutely.
- I'm sorry about the opera.
May I offer you a fry?
- They're French.
Okay. I think I might be up for a quick spin now.
- If you'll still have me.
And there beneath the florescent moonlight,
I was finally laughing with romance and not at it.
By Miranda's wedding day, I felt the whole world have gone romantic
when Samantha insisted on picking me up in a cab.
What has come over you? This is a hundred block out of your way.
- Boy you look nice.
Thank you.
Please tell me you've changed your mind.
You what? When?
Okay. I'm listening.
Of course, whatever you say.
So. What exactly do you know?
Well, thank you for telling me.
Samantha.
The one wedding ritual Miranda never had a problem with was the part
where everyone eats and so we did.
- No we're not okay with drinks.
- Keep 'em coming.
- Hi.
No, we're just talking.
You are the bossiest bride in the world.
For better or for worse,
we were all ourselves that day.
Just the way Miranda wanted it.
I've been dating the Russian for two months when we hit a relationship benchmarks
so rare I didn't even know it existed.
He gave me his alarm code.
You made me a set of keys?
Uh, it's...
4, 7, 3,
5?
It was a kind of security I'd never experienced in a relationship.
His alarm code.
Like it was nothing.
Do you really wanna hear about this now?
Samantha was feeling less secure as we waited for the results of her lumpectomy.
It's gonna be fine, sweetie.
They got it out, it's going to be fine.
Oh, ok, well, it was just so easy.
I mean Big made me beg for a key in front of his doorman whereas
the Russian had just welcomed me into his life and his apartment.
Did I mention the extra robe in the bathroom?
Even nicer if you can believe it.
Hi.
And one is..?
It was hard to be huffy in a cloth robe but somehow Samantha pulled it off.
All right then, good to meet you.
No, I don't think that's what he was saying.
Evidently there can be something microscopic.
Excuse me, do you have cancer or Tourette's?
Long weekend?
- Slow down there, miss.
Is this little trip your honeymoon?
And yet, you just got married last week.
- That's interesting.
Yeah, I'm with? Davis on this one.
Just leave Brady with Magda.
Well, I could take care of him part of the time.
What? I'm his godmother, it's the least I can do.
I can handle him for a couple of days.
I saw that.
Absolutely.
The next day, I tried on two labels.
Classic Vuitton and new mommy.
Yeah.
Now we're gonna go into carriage and we're gonna see the..
oop, my phone is ringing.
You stay here.
Yeah, hello.
I think that I was just mistaken for a mother by a mother.
Yes, Brady and I are having a lovely time.
In fact, we are going to spend the afternoon at the Hotel Petrovsky.
Well, I wouldn't have guessed it but when I told him I had Brady for the day
he said to bring him over.
Charlotte, it's death trap, we're just gonna strap a pillow around the kid and hope for the best.
And further downtown, Samantha was in hot pursuit of the hot woman doctor.
Samantha felt a little better knowing that saints and sinners, despite their habits,
get the same treatment when it comes to cancer.
And so far, that was no treatment at all.
Ok, we're here. Hey, come on in, Brady.
He gave us a candy.
Oh no, no, no, no.
Oh my gosh. ok.
4, 7,...
Brady knocked the vase over.
Well, my other plan was just to leave and pretend you'd been burgled.
You want the keys back right now?
Aleksandr holding the baby was the most disarming thing of all.
And upstate, in honeymoon central.
As Miranda got a crash course in life as a twosome,
I got a glimpse of life as a threesome.
You're very good with him.
Oh.
Many years ago.
- So.
No, I've always thought that I might,
I just, you know, I just haven't gotten around to it yet.
I felt like I was just shot with a.38.
The Russian doesn't want to have kids.
Had one a long time ago. It's done.
What? No, for you maybe, but not for me.
Well, yes. But it is my experience that man like him
don't come along that often.
Yes, I know. I've heard I'm running out of time.
- I don't even have time to eat this cookie.
It's so good I forgot to have children.
No, no, I don't think so.
- He had a vasectomy.
I can't ask him that.
- I don't even know his birthday yet.
That attitude, by the way, that awareness on the part of a woman
that time is ticking is very sexy to a man.
Why not?
It is, it's a perfectly scary conversation.
I didn't even wanted to have it with myself.
It means that if I really wanted to have a baby,
wouldn't I have tried to have one by now?
I wantd to be a writer, I made myself a writer.
I want a ridiculously extravagant pair of shoes,
I find a way to buy them.
Yes, that's exactly the way it goes in my head too.
Maybe I'm not just a baby person.
Why should I give up a man for a baby I hardly know I want?
What?
You didn't even want to leave Brady for two days.
Hi.
Ok.
Um, I forgot to ask.
See, baby person would've asked.
All right, I should get home, get some work done.
What, you think I'm gonna decide if I'm a baby person
in the next couple of hours?
Hello.
Brady is fine.
Good, but that's not why I'm calling.
Are you lost?
So you two are getting along.
Where's he?
- Well, then, don't forget the ice.
You should talk to Steve.
He's great.
We're great.
So, this whole motherhood thing, all it's cracked up to be?
I wondered if should was another disease plagueing women.
Did we want babies and perfect honeymoons,
or did we think we should have babies and perfect honeymoons?
How do we separate what we could do and what we should do?
And here's an alarming thought.
It's not just peer pressure, it seems to be coming from within.
Why are we should-ing all over ourselves?
Then there are the shoulds of promoting film
which Samantha should have been in favor of,
but she wasn't in the mood.
The next day, at the Hotel vasectomy, I had some questions for the man next to me.
So, this child you had.
- How old is..?
- She? Yes.
And you were married to her mother?
- She's beautiful.
- That's her mother?
She's lovely and so young.
So...
why only one child?
So, so funny.
There it was, wrapped up in a bow.
The whole life that I am never gonna have with him
because he had it already with somebody else.
And I know I shouldn't say this to someone with cancer,
why me?
Well, I guess it's not going to happen.
That life, if I'm with him.
What do you mean?
Well, him, sex, and travel.
Comfort, love, and extraordinary adventures.
If that's where this is going.
And at this point I've been only invited in as far as a security code and a robe.
And the question that I need to ask is just..
It's impossible to ask.
Will you love me enough..
to make up for the fact that I didn't have a baby.
Exactly, it's only been two months.
38 years and two months.
I know. It's too early in the relationship to have that conversation and...
But it's too late in life not to.
It's a catch-38.
And after safely putting Brady to bed in his very sturdy crib,
Charlotte and Harry enjoyed some romance as well.
Suddenly, Miranda understood the new should in her life.
The things you should do for someone you love.
For Miranda, once the honeymoon was over, it could finally begin.
The next day, at Dr. McAndrew's office,
impatient patients were getting desperate.
It was the one name Samantha hadn't dropped.
Smith turned out to be more than a screensaver.
He was a life saver.
And that is how Smith got Samantha in plus nun.
No, I'm ok.
This vasectomy,
it's not reversible, is it?
Ok.
I know you may think it's way too early to saywhat I'm about to say but...
it's not.
I think that...
I could really be with you
and I just wanna say that...
if this is something you are thinking,
I need to know because...
I'm 38 as you said and so..
I'm 38.
Well..
It depends who you're talking to.
I am kinda cold.
I didn't know what exactly I wanted,
but I felt like I was getting warmer.
When you're dating someone new, everything can seem foreign.
Especially when you're dating someone foreign.
My Russian had been taking me around the world.
Greece in Astoria, Italy in the Bronx.
Tonight, it was Korea; on W.32nd St.
Why thank you. So.
Where to tonight?
Really?
Well just so you know,
I'm fully vaccinated.
So, should we get a cab?
I'm intrigued. Continue.
Art smart. The man can cook.
I'm sorry. I don't use my kitchen.
And I don't usually make my guests sit on the floor next to my stack of Vogues,
which I ordinarily hide in the tub for company.
And the walls..
Small and artless?
Are you okay?
Great. Where?
I don't have an espresso machine.
Well. I may have an old Mr. Coffee One Cup but,
don't hold your breath. Oh my god.
Oh okay.
Oh that mouse is dead. Wow.
Well maybe he was just crossing through to get to the much nicer apartment next door.
Yeah, we're going out.
At least it didn't happen in a room I actually used like my closet.
The next morning, we were determined to use our good humors
to make Samantha's kemo lounge as close as possible to a cocktail lounge.
We try.
Hear, hear.
It's not at all what I expected.
They have these barker loungers and videos and Popsicles.
You throw in Shuffle Board, it'd be a vacation in Miami.
Later, the Russian took me somewhere else I've never been before.
The Kitchen Supplies Department.
She doesn't even look sick.
Well, she was. But she's gonna be fine.
From Kitchen supplies to a kitchen surprise.
In high school, Charlotte was voted most popular,
head of the track team and class president.
She had won everything.
Except the baby race.
Meanwhile, across town a couple who had won the baby race,
had lost their bedroom to their baby.
Oh. Wow.
- That is some strong coffee.
Oh. Well. No wonder you work all night.
I'm gonna need a little milk in this.
- I need to talk to you about something.
- Yes.
One with cancer?
Her name is Samantha.
I just felt like you weren't being very sensitive about my feelings.
I mentioned her and your first response was to tell me about your friend.
Yes. See, exactly.
I'm sorry about your friend.
But my friend is going to be fine.
See? You're doing it again.
Not everyone dies.
Okay. Maybe I'm not being very clear.
Please. Stop saying die.
No. They caught it early at Stage 1
and she's having the Cadillac of chemo.
No, she is going to be fine.
And your scaring me isn't helping.
Okay I don't know why but.. you are not listening to me.
Are you kidding? All I've said is... please don't talk about your friend who died.
I'm leaving.
No, we're not espresso.
We are not listening.
I'm leaving.
Excuse..
you know, I asked you not to mention your friend.
And now all I can think about is your friend
and my friend has nothing to do with your friend
And I think you're acting like an asshole.
I'm already going.
It was my first fight with the Russian
and I didn't know if it was the strong espresso
or the strong words but either way,
not even my feet slept that night.
That was the day a King Charles met an Upper East Side princess.
And an upper east-sider went to see a house in Brooklyn.
Miranda tried to see her future in Brooklyn,
but she just couldn't get there.
Apparently, Samantha wasn't the only one losing something that night.
Samantha's not gonna die, right?
Her hair started falling out at a really bad time.
No. But she was definitely doing a job.
Oh yes. Ma'am.
Yeah I know.
Well, it went like this.
Him: your friend might die, yes?
Me: No. You're all asshole.
We had our first fight.
This is a man who is so sensitive about so much but then this death,
deal with it.
I know he's Russian, but Jesus, come on.
It's definitely a barrier for me.
Is this who I'm seeing? A man kills mice and optimism?
You are aware that you've said she'll be fine three times in half a block.
In any way, how's it helping her if we freak out about it?
It is our job to think positive.
Can you believe we're actually having this conversation?
Okay. Stop. Now,
that is information I can't handle.
My conversation with Miranda brought me back to reality.
Or more specifically,
the people who want us to live in it.
The world tells us to get real.
But what happens when living in reality means living in pain, fear, or Brooklyn.
If the defense mechanism can get us through the difficult times,
how bad can it be?
Maybe the reality is we need denial.
Denial: friend or foe?
Denial had become Charlotte's best friend,
next to Harry.
That day, thanks to a dog with one short leg,
Charlotte stopped denying her shortcomings.
Are you kidding me? This is gonna be fun.
You look like Florence Henderson.
I'm sorry.
Sweetie, we'll find you a better wig.
It's only temporary. It'll grow back.
Because you're not.
You're someone had a little blip of bad luck and now it's over.
It's over. So over.
Hey, you are not going anywhere.
The denial part of me wanted to say you'll be fine.
Instead I said.
Okay. I'm here.
Yeah. You could be one of those fantastic bald women who's all about earrings.
That night, Smith gave Samantha the very best head of her life.
The next day, Miranda endured her first out of Borough experience.
And that was the reality.
That day, Miranda couldn't deny what was best for her family.
And so, she negotiated her way into her future.
And Samantha realized she couldn't deny cancer.
She may never be exactly who she was again.
So for that night, she decided to be Lil' Kim.
It was a very special delivery from Ms. Stork.
It was a girl. 8 pounds 2 ounces.
That was the day Elizabeth Taylor moved in with Harry and Charlotte.
And something far less glamorous moved in with me.
Thanks.
I was upset.
you know, I need you to not talk so that I can say this without you confusing me.
Samantha is my friend.
She's my family. My insides.
She will be fine because she has to be fine.
That's how important she is to me.
So, for you to say that she may not be just..
it feels very hurtful.
And really unnecessary.
My god.
Well, you could have just said that.
Yes we are.
I need my relationship with a little bit of milk.
Your friend will be fine.
That night, for the first time,
we spoke the same language.
So while Samantha's life and my life with the Russian would continue,
it was clear that Miranda's life as we knew it, was over.
Talk about denial.
Subway that goes under water. That's not normal.
That night, Miranda was determined to drink in as much Manhattan as she could.
What about your horrifying Studio sublet in River Side Drive?
Because it is.
It'll be childish of us to deny that our lives weren't changing.
But for this night, none of us were going anywhere.
That's the thing about really good friends and a really great Manhattan.
When it gets cold outside,
New Yorkers head inside.
And look for ways to generate heat.
Hey. Watch those hands, mister.
People are looking.
Yes, hi.
- Hi.
The oysters are very good.
Oh, um, I don't know.
I haven't seen them yet.
- No, I'm a writer.
No, I write a column for a newspaper.
- The New York Star.
- No, no, what are you... oh..
That wasn't one of my smartest ones.
And further Uptown, Charlotte didn't mind the cold.
She had a new puppy love to keep her warm.
And over in Brooklyn, someone was not feeling so prancy.
That night, at the only restaurant that seemed to exist.
I heard that Aleksandr Petrovsky is having a solo show in Paris.
It's exciting, tell me about your show.
Because I want to know about it, cuz it's important to you.
- I'm serious, come on.
I just wanna know more about what you do.
If for no other reason, then I would like to avoid having this face at restaurant.
It wouldn't be to me.
Well, then...
if you're not going to tell me about National Gallery blah blah,
then I need to get serious about my busy day.
I have many, many...
But I'm meeting people for things.
- Hey, sweetie, it's me.
Oh, bad news, I don't think I'm gonna make it.
No, I'm fine.
I'm just, you know,
I'm just all the way downtown with the Russian and it's very cold out.
- Oh. Congratulations.
Smith is gay?
Oh, who are you kidding.
You'd use any excuse to come in the city.
Okay.
Ah.
Which is exactly what I did. For the next four days.
With my column tragically overdue,
I finally left the Russian's warm apartment.
Oh, good god.
And came home to the tropics.
When you've been spending all your time in your new world,
it's easy to forget that there might be people trying to reach you
from your old world.
I deleted Big.
- Yep.
- Nope.
Delete, delete, delete.
Three messages last week.
- Don't know.
And for the first time, don't really care.
After his last trip, I finally got it. What's the point?
Things are serious with the Russian.
It's just so different and so..
It's grown up. There's not a lot of fuss,
there's no confusion about how he feels about me, he tells me all the time.
Unlike answering machine up there in Napa.
- Yeah.
- There's just one thing.
Well,
we don't really have anything in common but each other.
We're not really involved in each other's lives.
He never shares anything about his work.
- And he doesn't mind?
But you guys share everything else.
Yeah, I guess I just had this idea about a couple sharing everything.
At least their passions.
I'll say. It's really coming together.
What a delightful borough.
I want you to meet him, my Russian.
Good morning.
All night again?
It was clear from his silence we weren't having passions on top of passions for breakfast.
Hey, what are you doing on Sunday night?
Well, I was thinking since I met some of your friends the other day,
maybe you could meet some of my friends.
Well, my friends are here. And they're fantastic.
Then on Sunday, I'll be happy to meet your fantastic friends.
Oh goody.
And FYI, you have a friend in New York, me.
Oh no, no, no. I have to go home.
I have to write my column. I can't turn it in late again.
I can't, my computer's at home.
You would let me use your fancy computer.
Okay.
They say that opposites attract, but they never say for how long.
Should the relationship-savvy person stoke the fires of passion
with the kindling of work and friends
or shold we simply be satisfied with the romance that sizzles?
I couldn't help but wonder.
Without sharing your worlds, can even the hottest relationship stop cold?
Meanwhile, Samantha was about to hear the hottest rumor
from the city's hottest rumor mail.
Two young PR girls.
And that stopped Samantha cold.
Oh, poor Stanny.
- Oh, you are a good friend.
All the way from Brooklyn to see a bunch of dogs run in a circle.
Oh, Hey, you guys want to have drinks with the Russian tomorrow night?
Oh, sweetie, I'm sorry. It's just the girls this time.
You'd be in the next round, I promise.
Ok, I gotta go backstage and check on the little mother.
Hey, how's it..?
- What's wrong?
- Excuse me?
You're right, it's not funny.
I'm a woman. I should know better.
Trouble.
Elizabeth Taylor just got her period.
Backstage. That time of the month.
Charlotte was a dog show natural.
Thanks to her blue blood background.
And speaking of blood.
All the dogs were champions,
but to the judge, Charlotte was the best in show.
Period.
And from dog show to doggy show.
The very next day, two PR girls got an anonymous triple X from FedEx.
There we were at Asia de Cuba waiting for my lover de Russia.
Hi, where are you?
Oh really?
No, no, I understand.
Ok, I will.
Ok.
- Well, he's not gonna make it.
No, he's just in the middle of something at his studio,
- he can't stop right now.
He's getting ready for this big exhibit at some Paris museum.
He's been staying up nights.
Oh, I'm disappointed. I wanted you guys to meet him.
Hey, you know what, why don't we finish these off,
crack this open and give him some time and go over there and say hello.
Yeah, yeah, we'll just go say hi.
He's always telling me to be more spontaneous.
A couple cocktails and a bottle champagne later.
Eighth floor, Lingerie.
Apartment, studio.
He has the whole floor.
Hello?
- I'm being spontaneous.
I know, but I wanted my friends to meet you.
Well, Charlotte, you've met.
But, this is Miranda and Samantha, a. k.a. Foxy Brown.
And I wanted them to see the house.
I'm sorry, I thought..
Oh, do you guys still want to see the apartment?
No, no, I'm think I'm gonna stay.
Bye.
And although Steve had satisfied Miranda,
she still wanted more.
Samantha's hot tape cooled her love of gossip for good.
Or at least for now.
And try as I might, I could not forget the Russian's icy treatment of my friends.
Hey, I need to talk to you.
I know that you're busy, but those were my..
Is something..
Are you ok?
No, you are not fine.
Hey, come on, talk to me.
It's going to be enough.
It's true I don't know anything about the piece but...
you are brilliant.
Ohm, she's just an uptight bitch.
Well, that's better.
You're a little scary.
So talk to me, what's the problem?
I may not understand, but I'll listen.
It's a cold hard fact.
Sometimes, there's not enough time in a night for both your worlds.
When you live in New York City,
it can take all your energy to stay in Vogue.
So when Enid Figg, my old boss at Vogue wanted to meet me for lunch,
I was eager to hear what she had for me.
Apparntly, this would be about what I had for her.
Oh. Well, unless I'm doing the catering, it sounds like a fun favor.
- Done. Is that it?
A date?
- I'll have the dorado as well.
- We'll have the Dorado.
The only thing is I'm not sure if Alexander is a let's set people up kind of guy.
Later that evening, the couple I was in had a couple of hours
to prepare a dinner party for a couple of couples.
My friends enjoy all wine.
Hey. Do you have any single male friends?
It's for this friend of mine.
- Perfect.
No. It's just what we do to distract ourselves until the real thing comes along.
Oh sorry. All my friends are taken.
Wow. I've never said that before.
Unfortunately, having a man leave me for Paris was not foreign to me.
Sure, I'll come for the opening and maybe another weekend also?
In Paris?
For who knows when we'll come back?
But this was foreign to me.
For most women, the goal of the dinner party is
to have your friends feel comfortable around your boyfriend.
Other times, you wish your friends were not quite so comfortable.
I don't think we're supposed to say vibrator over dinner.
They are large-scale light instillations integrated with video imaging.
Well, we hadn't actually discussed the details but...
yes, I have been invited to go to Paris.
Later, my friends wanted a tour of the apartment.
A.k.a, time to ask me what the hell was going on.
- I don't know.
He just sprang this on me two hours ago.
I'm not sure. I haven't digested it yet.
- I'm still digesting dinner.
I know. My boyfriend has just asked me to go to Paris with him.
This is the most romantic thing that has ever happened to me.
So. I spoke to my girlfriends and they have a few questions about Paris.
Well we don't know about that yet.
I mean...
how could this work? Would I get my own place?
- I don't know.
I've never done this before.
Okay but are we talking a year? Indefinitely?
Don't I need to learn French? Would I be able to work there?
What about my cell phone? Would it work there?
I can't remember. I think I drank too much Barolo at dinner.
Okay. Here's one of mine.
What about my apartment here? Would I sublet it?
- That's crazy. I can't let you do that.
And I've always wanted to learn French and drink wine before noon so basically
it's my fantasy complete with Parisian parties and museum openings.
As long as it's fun.
Indefinitely.
No. Cause I'd still have my apartment here.
- No. That's..
I don't think that's the point.
- The world.
I don't know.
How can you people still have questions? I got all of your questions answered.
And they were good answers by the way.
So this is the time when everybody should be really excited for me.
. - No. Forget it. Forget it.
- Then stop killing it with questions.
I am thinking it through.
But it's a nice offer and it would be nice
if my friends could be happy for me.
Especially when I've always been happy for them.
They say the unexamined life it not worth living.
But what if the examining becomes your life?
Is that living or just procrastinating?
And what if all those helpful lunches and late night phone calls to friends
have made us all girl talk and no girl action?
Is it time to stop questioning?
Certain questions should never be asked by anyone.
Especially a husband.
Elizabeth Taylor had gained 4 pounds
which for a dog who used to weigh 8 pounds seemed excessive.
Miranda just doesn't like him.
- This is all about Billy Joel.
Well I like me in New York, too. But I really like him.
- He's great, isn't he?
- And he can be really sweet.
- Then why does Miranda not like him?
She didn't try to get to know him. She didn't ask him one question all night
- and she is all about the questions.
I've never heard you use the term boyfriend.
- You know the most annoying thing?
Miranda has a point. What about work and everything.
Maybe I can't leave New York.
I don't know how I'd do some place else.
Well now you're being too supportive.
Later I still had questions filling my head.
But at least they were in French. Voulez vous a Paris?
- Yeah I just have to put my earrings on.
Oh. Well.
I haven't decided yet.
- I just have..
Things to figure out.
My whole life is here.
Could we stay in New York and then...
just go to Paris for few months for your show?
Then it wouldn't feel like we're moving.
But.. I'm not finished with New York.
Maybe we could... do long distance for a while?
Going back and forth?
I don't know. Voulez-vous an ultimatum?
Normally a couple doesn't go from an ultimatum to a party.
But we were in charge of bringing something very important.
- Enid, this is.
- And this is Martin Grable.
Martin is a food critic for Bon a Petite.
- He's very sweet and smart.
Lexi Featherington has been one of New York's legendary party girls
who always ended up on page 6 because of her bar hopping and her bed hopping.
Oh, I --
An hour later, I had somehow ended up on Enid's date.
And Enid had somehow ended up on mine. .
Martin, can you excuse me just for a minute? Thank you.
- Hi.
- Yes, I see that.
- Oh no. I'm fine. Thanks.
Because I am?
- What are you doing?
It was another question I wasn't prepared to answer.
- I need to go to the bathroom.
Outside, the snow was starting to come down.
And inside, it was going up.
- No thanks.
- Do people still do coke?
- No, I was trying to get away for a minute
- Well, actually, I'm with someone.
And speaking of little piece of shit parties,
That night, Charlotte embraced her maternal instinct.
And three puppies.
And I, embraced my boyfriend for as long as I still had him.
So. They aren't together all the time. They seem happy.
I want you everyday too but I have a life here.
- No, Oh sorry I don't smoke anymore.
It was the first time Lexi had ever left a party early.
An hour later, the snow really started to fall.
The first time that winter.
And it didn't stop.
The city was silent.
There were no more questions.
Only white noise.
I want to go to Paris.
It was a day made for first snows.
And staying home with family.
Two days later, we said goodbye to our snow angel.
Stannie, the girl died. It's sad. The end.
- 'I'm so bored I could die.'
- Hey. Hi.
- She wasn't always so tragic.
- Remember the 80s? - She was the 'it' girl.
You guys, we're suppose to be in mourning.
- We are. It's the end of an era.
Ladies, if you are single in New York, after a certain point,
there is nowhere to go but down.
- I'm going to Paris.
No. Because I wanna open a new one.
- I quit.
- Stop.
We are done with the question portion of the program.
I'm happy. I'm going.
Now let's go say goodbye to Lexi.
After the funeral, a couple of friends walked a couple of blocks.
- I'm not hungry but I'll go sit with you.
- It's two blocks.
No. They weren't really into my American girl in Paris angle.
New York paper, New York girl. Got to be such a hassle so.
Don't know. Probably some 29 year old single girl with all new problems.
- Miranda, please.
No, it's not who I am, it's what I do.
That' s my column.
- I think I'm gonna go home.
You have an opinion. You've had it for quite some time.
Why can't you be happy for me?
- You moved to Brooklyn.
I cannot stay in New York and be single for you.
- This is about you.
As long as I'm here, in the same place, writing my column
- then nothing has really changed.
No, you moved on, Charlotte's moved on. Even Samantha's moved on.
I can stay here and write about my life or I can go with him and live my life.
- Just say it. You don't like him.
Then don't you go to Paris with him.
Maybe I was living in a fantasy.
But I found a man who could make it a reality.
And I wasn't gonna question any of it.
Not even how he found a horse drawn sleigh in the middle of Manhattan.
Some outfits wait a lifetime to be taken somewhere special.
The same can be true of people.
After many more hours of packing,
I was off for our version of the last supper.
Hi.
Well, I'm late for dinner with the girls.
- No, no, it's okay. It's cold.
I'm sorry for not returning your calls.
No, it's.. I've just been busy with other things.
- It's fine.
- You were fine.
Look, you don't have to do this okay? There's really no point.
It's all fine.
Raoul's freezing and I have to go meet the girls.
I won't be here tomorrow. I'm leaving for Paris tonight.
It's not a vacation.
I'm going there with a man that I'm in a relationship with.
He's wonderful, and I'm happy.
So, please don't feel bad about anything.
Goodbye.
- I have to go.
His name is Aleksandr Petrovsky.
You do this every time.
- You and I, nothing!
You cannot do this to me again. You cannot jerk me around.
- Oh, it's never different.
It's six years of never being different.
But this is it, I am done. Don't call me, ever again.
Forget you know my number. In fact, forget you know my name.
And you can drive down this street all you want,
because I don't live here anymore.
Sure, now that I'm with someone else, now that I'm leaving, it's different.
- You know who he is?
The boy who cried love. That's who.
And just like in the fable, it's too little too late.
No, it's a.. No, it's an allegory..
Look, my point is, he's been doing this for years. Years.
- And I'm done with it.
Oh, it is behind me.
I'm mostly upset about him ruining my last night in New York.
Well, fuck him.
And you know I never say that.
- No, no, no, I can't be drunk on the plane.
I wanna arrive stunning and impossibly fresh-looking.
Ok.
Ladies.
I want to thank you all for wishing me well tonight.
In spite of some of your personal opinions about my leaving.
Today, I had a thought.
What if I...
what if I had never met you?
- Yes, tears have to go.
Right, someone say something not sentimental.
Really? What was your excuse before the chemo?
- Bonjour.
- Merci beaucoup.
Merci. Merci beaucoup.
- Bonjour.
Bonjour.
- A little slow, s'il vous plait.
- New Yorker.
Um, Je m'appelle Carrie Bradshaw.
I'm staying here with Aleksandr Petrovsky.
- Oui?
So, um the luggage?
Merci.
Thank you.
Hi.
- Really?
Oh.
- Tres bien, merci et toi?
I'm sorry, all I got was it's ten thirty.
- Well, I'm learning but..
- Oh.
Oh well, that's my department. So tell me all about the bum.
Well, not if you include movies.
But I can't believe I'm finally here.
I almost screamed when we drove by Eiffel Tower.
Oh.
Oh, well, you two should have your day alone.
You know, all the interpreting for me is going to cut your time in half.
I can unpack and take a nap and try to get on Paris time. Okay?
I'm in Paris. Don't you worry about me.
- Ok.
- Ok.
Enchantee de vous rencontrer.
- Thank you. bye.
- Where am I going?
- Six cent vingt-cinq.
Au revoir.
- Merci beaucoup.
Oh, mon dieu.
Les rideaux de fenetre.
Ten hours later,
all dressed up and no Petrovsky to go.
- Why didn't you call?
- Right, I forgot.
It's dinner time in New York.
Mille feuille. A Thousand layers.
Stop. Oh my god.
After a week in Paris,
I decided my french was now strong enough to brave the ultimate test.
A day of shopping.
Dior
Bonjour.
- Fine.
Yeah, I'm fine.
Oh, my purse.
I fell. I fell in Dior, so I decided that the more I purchased,
the less they think of me as the American who fell in Dior.
- Well, not anymore, they don't.
This is the shopping equivalent of lobotomy.
My purse went flying, I had to scoop everything up.
I came all the way from New York to squat and scoop in Dior.
I didn't even bother to check and see if I had all my credit cards.
One that I won't be using again for many many years.
- No, no, no. Oh my god.
My Carrie necklace was in here. I put it in here and I don't see it.
It's not in here.
No, I can't have lost my Carrie necklace. No.
- No, no, it's not like that.
It costs like nothing but it's priceless.
I've just had it forever, so..
- Is it too early?
- I'm really upset.
It's nothing serious. It's just..
I lost my Carrie necklace and it's gone and...
I'll never be able to replace it
and I got it at that street fair when we were all together
and... it just makes me so sad.
Well, no one in Paris seems to understand or at least they don't understand me.
- It's ridiculous, I just got here.
I've just only been here a week.
Well, it's hard.
It's harder than I thought. I don't speak the language and...
it's too cold and rainy to walk around all day.
I've been to every museum, you know, like twice.
I don't know, I'm just sort of lost.
Well, the exhibit is taking much more time than he thought,
so... I'm alone a lot.
- It's ridiculous, I just got here.
No, I'm just being a baby, you know. I lost my necklace and...
I saw these girls having lunch and..
I just,
I just thought how much I missed you guys.
Oh, this is absurd. I'm in Paris,
I've wanted to come here my whole life.
I just have, you know, too much time to think.
Can I tell you something and you won't use it against me
- when I feel better and everything's great?
I keep thinking about Big.
About... what it would be like if I come here with Big.
- Hello?
But that's just something I do when things aren't going perfect with any guy,
you know, I compare him to Big.
Oh god, this French phone is saying something that I don't understand.
What is that?
Oh my god.
These aren't diamonds?
- Yes.
Ok.
- It's lovely.
- Oh yeah.
After two weeks in Paris,
it was time for the ultimate in sophisticated French fare:
meeting your lover and his ex-wife for lunch.
- Oh hello. I'm Carrie.
- It's nice to finally meet you.
- Thank you.
Well if I'm fashionably late, then Alec is very fashionable.
- Oh thank you. It's vintage.
The silk lining's about a hundred million years old but I'm so in love with it.
Wow. Alec's never mentioned what work you did.
Oui, merci.
Yes.
Well this is a fantastic restaurant.
- He's wonderful. A bit stressed.
Can I just say, I think it's lovelythat you both think so highly of one another.
Yes. I would. Thank you.
I am a writer. Until recently I had a weekly column in New York.
It became a book. It's even been published here.
Oh god yes. He's very supportive.
- Can you hold this?
Aren't you gonna say anything about the fact that I'm smoking?
- Your review's out already?
- Again? It's been like this all week.
I thought we'd at least have the morning together.
Is this going to be everyday?
I'm not trying to make you feel worse.
I said nothing when you left me alone with your wife.
- No. you take the driver.
I'll walk around. Do French things. It'll be very Parisian.
- It's killing me.
Oh God.
Merci beaucoup.
Oh no. Merci beaucoup.
- Yeah.
Apparently, I fell right into my French fan-base.
Both of them. They were so fun and silly.
And they insisted on throwing a party in my honor.
They want me to meet their friends who supposedly love the book as well.
Anyway, it's nothing terribly fancy.
It's just a cozy dinner and a quite hotel in Paris with my ten new French friends.
I know. Anyway, the party is Saturday night at the La Petite Augberge on the Rue St. Andre des Artes
- Are you up for it?
- I don't mind if I do.
- Do you think they'll really be screaming?
- So do I.
Okay you gorgeous Russian.
I'm off.
Good luck at the museum.
What's wrong?
Breathe. Here. Put your head between your legs and breathe.
Why? What brought this on?
Here, let me do this for you.
- Stop.
Look at me.
You'll be fine.
But I have my party.
I don't have anybody's telephone number to call and cancel.
No. I'll go.
- It's important to you.
The one place in Paris you can't smoke.
Perfect. A hole in my Dior.
What?
Tell that man I had to go.
Taxi! Taxi!
Excuse moi.
I went to my party.
- Over. It was over.
How could you just abandon me like that when I gave up my party to be with you.
I sat on a bench alone in a museum.
I'm in this relationship too.
I am a person in this relationship.
Have you any idea what it's been like for me here?
Eating alone and waiting for my boyfriend who would rather spend time with a light instillation?
That's what I do. That's who I am.
- I had a life in New York.
I had a job and friends and I didn't give all of that up to come here
and wonder the streets of Paris alone.
- No. Not as soon as.
- Oh my necklace.
Well...
Maybe it's time to be clear about who I am.
I am someone who is looking for love.
Real love. Ridiculous, inconvenient,
consuming can't live without each other love.
And I don't think...
that love is here in...
in this expensive suite and this lovely hotel in Paris.
It's not your fault. It's my fault.
I shouldn't have come here.
I'm fine.
Thank you.
Well, I'm a single and it would be fine.
- Merci.
Hi.
Paris is a mess. I never should have come here.
Everything fell apart.
We had a big fight and then I got slapped.
- No. He didn't' mean it.
- It was an accident. It was --
- What? No. It's not like that.
- What? No.
- I'm not telling you that.
Wait. Stop. What you..
Oh hey. Stop. What do you think you're doing?
- What? No. It's not like that.
- You've got it completely wrong.
I don't need you to do this. Stop. This is totally unnecessary.
What do you think you're doing?
Stop. Slow down. You're gonna have a heart attack.
I mean it. It took care of this myself. I don't need you to rescue me.
Why is that funny?
- No. I'm still in shock.
This is so surreal. What..
how did you even get here?
Kiss me you big crybaby.
I miss New York. Take me home.
Thank you.
Oh. Did you wanna come up?
- Oh my god.
Later that day, I got to thinking about relationships.
There are those that open you up to something new and exotic.
Those that are old and familiar.
Those that bring up lots of questions.
Those that bring you somewhere unexpected.
Those that bring you far from where you started.
And those that bring you back.
But the most exciting, challenging and significant relationship of all
is the one you have with yourself.
And if you find someone to love the you, you love,
- Hi.
- How's Napa?
Well, that's just fabulous.
