Mmh. It is true what they say about the Northern girls.
I did hear something about that.
And the other brother?
There's the pretty one. And there's the clever one.
I hear he hates that nickname.
Clever girl.
Have you?
The gods gave me one blessing.
Should I explain to you the meaning of a closed door in a whorehouse, brother?
She has odd cravings, our sister.
I'm sorry, I've begun the feast a bit early. And this is the first of many courses.
Close the door!
Your uncle's in the Night's Watch.
Preparing for a night with your family. I've always wanted to see the Wall.
My greatest accomplishment. You – you're Ned Stark's bastard, aren't you?
Did I offend you? Sorry. You are the bastard, though.
And Lady Stark is not your mother. Making you a bastard. Let me give you some advice, bastard. Never forget what you are. The rest of the world will not. Wear it like armor. Then it can never be used to hurt you.
All dwarves are bastards in their fathers' eyes.
If I get through this without squirting from one end or the other, it will be a miracle.
The greatest in the land. My spear never misses.
Before you go, you will call on Lord and Lady Stark and offer your sympathies.
None. But it is expected of you. Your absence has already been noted.
One word and I'll hit you again.
Go! Tell her. But first you will get to Lord and Lady Stark and you will fall on your knees in front of them and tell them how very sorry you are, that you are at their service, and that all your prayers are with them. Do you understand?
Do you understand?
I hope so. If he forgets, be a good dog and remind him. Time for breakfast...
Bread. And two of those little fish. And a mug of dark beer to wash it down. And bacon, burnt black.
Beloved siblings.
Apparently not.
The Maester says the boy may live.
Only the gods know for certain. All the rest of us can do is pray. The charms of the north seem entirely lost on you.
Where's your sense of wonder? The greatest structure ever built, the intrepid men of the Night's Watch, the wintry abode of the White Walkers.
And go celibate? The whores would go begging from Dorne to Casterly Rock. I just want to stand on top of the Wall and piss off the edge of the world.
Speaking for the grotesques, I'd have to disagree. Death is so final, whereas life... Life is full of possibilities. I hope the boy does wake. I'd be very interested to hear what he has to say.
My dear brother, you wound me. You know how much I love my family.
Rapers. They were given a choice no doubt... Castration or the Wall. Most choose the knife. Not impressed by your new brothers? Lovely thing about the Watch... You discard your old family and get a whole new one.
Look at me and tell me what you see.
What you see is a dwarf. If I'd been born a peasant they might've left me out in the woods to die. Alas, I was born a Lannister of Casterly Rock. Things are expected of me. My father was the Hand of the King for 20 years.
Yes, until my brother killed him. Life is full of these little ironies. My sister married the new King and my repulsive nephew will be King after him. I must do my part for the honor of my house, wouldn't you agree? But how? Well, my brother has his sword and I have my mind. And a mind needs books like a sword needs a whetstone. That's why I read so much. And you? What's your story, bastard?
A bastard boy with nothing to inherit, off to join the ancient order of the Night's Watch, alongside his valiant brothers-in-arms.
Yes yes, against grumpkins and snarks and all the other monsters your wet nurse warned you about. You're a smart boy. You don't believe that nonsense... Everything's better with some wine in the belly.
A charming man.
And how's that going, Commander Mormont?
Good news or bad?
I'm looking at you. You've got an interesting face. Very distinctive faces. All of you.
It's just I think they would look marvelous decorating spikes in King's Landing. Perhaps I'll write my sister, the Queen, about it.
Grenn's father left him too... Outside a farmhouse when he was three. Pyp was caught stealing a wheel of cheese. His little sister hadn't eaten in three days. He was given a choice
It's a lucky thing none of them were trained by a master-at-arms like your Ser Rodrik. I don't imagine any of them have ever held a real sword before they came here. Your brother Bran. He's woken up.
You're joking?
And how do a bear's balls taste?
Do Dornish girls count? So you roam the Seven Kingdoms, collaring pickpockets and horse thieves and bringing them here as eager recruits?
They have a better chance finding feed than glory.
You don't have enough men to be an army and aside from Yoren here, none of you are particularly funny.
Do you think I'm plump? Listen, Benjen... May I call you Benjen?
I'm not sure what I've done to offend you. I have great admiration for the Night's Watch. I've great admiration for you as First Ranger.
But... I don't believe that giants and ghouls and White Walkers are lurking beyond the Wall. I believe that the only difference between us and the wildlings is that when the Wall went up, our ancestors happened to live on the right side of it.
I think he's starting to like me. "Going below"?
So you're heading down to King's Landing too.
Let's share the road. I could use some decent company.
Not this time. We'll be staying at the finest castles and inns. No one turns away a Lannister.
Eight... no, nine.
They say the winter of my birth was three years long, Maester Aemon.
Yes, and the fishermen of Lannisport say they see mermaids.
It's either me or this cold. And it doesn't appear to be going anywhere.
I expect I will. Gods know there aren't many feather beds between here and King's Landing.
Of course.
If you're going to be a cripple, it's better to be a rich cripple. Take care, Snow.
I must say I received a slightly warmer welcome on my last visit.
Any man of the Night's Watch, but not I, eh, boy?
Then you might learn a lordo s courtesy.
So it's true. Hello Bran. Do you remember anything about what happened?
Curious.
Would your charming companion be so kind as to kneel? My neck is beginning to hurt.
Do you like to ride, Bran?
What of it? With the right horse and saddle, even a cripple can ride.
Then I'm not a dwarf. My father will rejoice to hear it. I have a gift for you. Give that to your saddler. He'll provide the rest. You must shape the horse to the rider. Start with a yearling and teach it to respond to the reins and to the boy's voice.
You will. On horseback you will be as tall as any of them.
I have a tender spot in my heart for cripples, bastards and broken things.
Spare me your false courtesies, Lord Stark. There's a brothel outside your walls. There I'll find a bed and both of us can sleep easier.
Come to see me off, Greyjoy? Kind of you. Your master doesn't seem to like Lannisters.
No, of course not. What happened here? Where is lady Stark? Why didn't she receive me?
She's not in Winterfell, is she? Where did she go?
My lady? Your loyalty to your captors is touching. Tell me, how do you think Balon Greyjoy would feel if he could see his only surviving son has turned lackey? I still remember seeing my father's fleet burn in Lannisport. I believe your uncles were responsible?
Nothing prettier than watching sailors burn alive. Yes, a great victory for your people. Shame how it all turned out.
A stupid rebellion then. I suppose your father realized that when your brothers died in battle. Now here you are, your enemy's squire.
I've offended you. Forgive me, it's been a rough morning. Anyway, don't despair. I'm a constant disappointment to my own father and I've learned to live with it. Your next tumble with Ros is on me. I'll try not to wear her out.
My men can sleep in the stable. As for myself, I don't require a large room.
Is there nothing I can do... to remedy this?
There's a clever man. You can manage food, I trust? Yoren, dine with me.
Nothing would more likely ruin my supper. Lady Stark! What an unexpected pleasure. I was sorry to have missed you at Winterfell.
I envy your father all his fine friends, but I don't quite see the purpose of this.
This isn't the Kingsroad. You said we were riding for Winterfell.
Very wise. They'll be out in droves, looking for me in the wrong place. Wordo s probably gotten to my father by now. He'll be offering a handsome reward. Everyone knows a Lannister always pays his debts. Would you be so good as to untie me?
Why not? Am I going to run? The hill tribes would kill me for my boots. Unless a Shadowcat ate me first.
Ah... the Eastern Road. We're going to The Vale. You're taking me to your sister's to answer for my imagined crimes. Tell me, Lady Stark. When was the last time you saw your sister?
She's changed. She was always a bit touched, but now... you might as well kill me here.
Neither am I! I had nothing to do with the attempt on your son's life!
What sort of imbecile arms an assassin with his own blade?
Why? Am I starting to make sense?
Untie me. If I die, what's the point?
Well, I'm willing if she is.
The Eyrie. They say it's impregnable.
I like you.
Oh? Did I kill him too? I've been a very busy man.
If any harm comes to me, my brother, Jaime, will see that they do.
Mord! Turnkey! Mord! Mord!
How would you like to be rich?
My family is rich. We have gold, lots of gold. I'm prepared to give you lots of gold.
Well, I don't have it here.
Mord! Mord! Mord! Mord! Mord!
About the gold -
Listen to me! Listen to me! Sometimes possession… is an abstract concept. When they captured me they took my purse, but the gold is still mine.
Where? I don't know where, but when they free me -
Have you ever heard the phrase “Rich as a Lannister”? Of course you have. You're a smart man. You know who the Lannisters are. I am a Lannister. Tyrion, son of Tywin! And of course, you have also heard the phrase, “a Lannister always pays his debts.” If you deliver a message from me to Lady Arryn, I will be in your debt. I will owe you gold. If you deliver the message and I live, which I very much intend to do.
Tell her I wish to confess my crimes.
Yes, my lady. I do, my lady.
Where do I begin, my lords and ladies? I'm a vile man, I confess it. My crimes and sins are beyond counting. I have lied and cheated, gambled and whored. I'm not particularly good at violence, but I'm good at convincing others to do violence for me. You want specifics, I suppose. When I was seven, I saw a servant girl bathing in the river. I stole her robe. She was forced to return to the castle, naked and in tears. I close my eyes, I can still see her tits bouncing. When I was ten, I stuffed my uncle's boots with goatshit. When confronted with my crime, I blamed a squire. Poor boy was flogged and… I escaped justice. When I was twelve, I milked my eel into a pot of turtle stew. I flogged the one-eyed snake. I skinned my sausage. I made the bald man cry into the turtle stew, which I do believe my sister ate. At least I hope she did. I once brought a jackass and a honeycomb into a brothel -
Confessing my crimes.
Oh, I'm very sorry. I don't know anything about all that.
Is this how justice is done in the Vale? you accuse me of crimes, I deny them, so you throw me in a cell to freeze and starve? Where is the King's Justice? I'm accused and demand a trial.
I understand the law.
No need to bother Lord Robin. I demand a trial by combat.
Agreed.
Now I demand a champion. I have that right, same as you.
I wouldn't be too glad, ser. I name my brother, Jaime Lannister.
Send a raven for him, I'm happy to wait.
Do I have a volunteer?
Anyone?... Anyone?
Not this little man. This little man is going home. I believe you have something of mine.
A Lannister always pays his debts.
From here it might be best if Bronn and I continue alone.
And feed it to the goats, yes.
Uncle. Father.
Sorry to disappoint you.
May I present My Lord Father, Tywin son of Tytos of House Lannister.
We have our differences, Jaime and I.
And the Starks? Lord Eddard?
How did my sweet sister persuade the King to imprison his dear friend Ned?
My sister rules, you mean.
Maybe. Though the boy does have a certain belligerence.
Oh, do continue. Didn't mean to interrupt.
Shagga likes axes.
The vanguard? Me and the tribesmen on the front lines?
Ferocious? Last night a Moon Brother stabbed a Stone Crow over a sausage. Three Stone Crows seized the Moon Brother and opened his throat. Bronn managed to keep Shagga from chopping off the dead man's cock, which was fortunate, but even still, Ulf is demanding blood money, which Shagga and Gunthor refuse to pay.
Surely there are ways to have me killed that would be less detrimental to the war effort.
lt appears l'm not hungry after all. Excuse me, my lords.
Where did you find one so pretty at this hour?
Took her? From whom?
And he didn't have anything to say about it?
Well, the odds of me living long enough for him to retaliate have just dropped drastically. We'll be at the vanguard tomorrow.
Who are you?
What did your mother call you?
My mother died giving birth to me.
What sort of accent is that?
For-
What do l want from you? l want you to share my tent. l want you to pour my wine, laugh at my jokes, rub my legs when they're sore after a day's ride. l want you to take no other man to bed for as long as we're together. And l want you to fuck me like it's my last night in this world. Which it may well be.
One - safety. No one will hurt you for as long as you're mine. Two - the pleasure of my company, which l have heard is spectacular.
And three - more gold than you can spend if you lived a thousand years. Do you accept my proposal?
No.
Ah! Damn you, woman. Are you immune to pain?
Let's play a new game.
Does it involve the potential for losing fingers?
No! No fire games, no knife games. Let's do something l'm good at.
l happen to be a great judge of character.
lt's not. Here's how it works - l make a statement about your past. lf l'm right, you drink. lf l'm wrong, l drink. And no lying. l'll know if you're lying.
Fine. Bronn first. Your father beat you.
You killed your first man before you were 12.
You've been north of the Wall.
And you once loved a woman many years ago, but it turned out badly so you've never let yourself love again. Oh, wait, that's me. Your turn, my mysterious foreign beauty.
lt's fun! Look at the fun we're having. Your mother was a whore.
All right. Your father left the family when you were very young, never to return.
And we've established the rules about lying?
You wanted a different life. You came from somewhere and you wanted to be elsewhere.
So, specifics… You wanted to be elsewhere, but how would you get there? l don't believe the life of the Silent Sisters is for you. So, what's a lowborn girl to do?
Are you sure –
My dear lady, if l have offended you, l apologize.
Fine, fine. Ask away. Try to penetrate the enigma that is me.
That's not how the game works.
How did you hear that?
Another night, perhaps.
lt's not a pleasant story.
So l was 16. My brother Jaime and l were riding, when we heard a scream. She ran out onto the road, clothes half torn off, with two men on her heels. Jaime scared away the men easily enough, while l wrapped her in my cloak. She was too scared to send off on her own, so while Jaime hunted down the rapers l took her to the nearest inn and fed her. Her name was Tysha. She was a wheelwright's orphan. And she was hungry. Together we finished off three chickens and a flagon of wine. lmpossible as it seems, there was a time when l was unaccustomed to wine. l forgot how afraid l was around girls. how l was always waiting for them to laugh at me or look away embarrassed, or ask me about my tall, handsome brother. l forgot about everything but Tysha. And somehow l found myself in her bed.
lt didn't last long. l didn't know what the hell l was doing. But she was good to me. She kissed me afterwards and sang me a song. And by morning l was deep enough in love to ask for her hand. A few lies, a few gold coins, one drunken septon and there you have it - man and wife. For a fortnight anyway, until the septon sobered up and told my father.
Not quite. First, my father had Jaime tell me the truth. The girl was a whore, you see. Jaime had arranged the whole thing - the road, the rapers, all of it. He thought it was time l had a woman. After my brother confessed, my father brought in my wife and gave her to his guards. He paid her well - a silver for each man. How many whores command that kind of price? He brought me into the barracks and made me watch. By the end, she had so much silver that the coins were slipping through her fingers and rolling on to the floor.
Really? l was 16, drunk and in love.
As l said, l was young and stupid.
What is it? What do you want?
What?
Get my squire!
lf l die, weep for me.
l'll know.
Stay low?
l was born lucky. Tribesmen of the Vale, gather round! Stone Crows! Black Ears! Burned Men! Moon Brothers! And Painted Dogs! Your dominion over the Vale begins now! Onward, to claim what is yours!
To battle!
l'm alive?
Did we win?
How did our tribesmen do?
lt's nice to see them getting along.
Good of you to notice. l hear we won.
Did we get the Stark boy, at least?
Where was he?
And where are they?
The Stark boy appears to be less green than we'd hoped.
There's your peace. Joffrey saw to that when he decided to remove Ned Stark's head. You'll have an easier time drinking from that cup than you will bringing Robb Stark to the table now. He's winning – in case you hadn't noticed.
Half wrong. l'm new to strategy, but unless we want to be surrounded by three armies, it appears we can't stay here.
And do what?
Heads, spikes, walls. Why not my uncle? Why not anyone? Why me?
So it would seem.
No, he said l couldn't take with me to King's Landing. He was very specific on that point.
What?
l believe he used the word "whore".
My father's probably the most powerful man in the country. Certainly the richest. He has all Seven Kingdoms in his pockets. Everyone everywhere always has to do exactly what my father says. He's always been a cunt. l believe the ladies of the court could learn a great deal from a girl like you. Why don't you come with me, be the Hando s lady? Because the King needs a Hand and the Hand –
Beloved nephew.
We looked for you on the battlefield. . You were nowhere to be found.
What a fine job you've done. . Look at you. . More beautiful than ever. . And you! You, you're going to be bigger than the Hound, but much better looking. . This one doesn't like me.
Me, too, dear. Death is so boring, especially now with so much excitement in the world. . My Lady, I'm sorry for your loss.
But still her father. Surely having so recently lost your own beloved father you can sympathize.
Of course you are.
Well, , enjoy your name day, Your Grace. Wish I could stay and celebrate, but there is work to be done.
Don't get up. More ravishing than ever, big sister. . War agrees with you. Forgive the interruption, carry on.
It's been a remarkable journey. I, , pissed off the edge of the Wall, I slept in a sky cell. . I fought with the hill tribes. So many adventures, so much to be thankful for.
Yes., well, I, do believe the Hand of the King is welcome at all small council meetings.
Yes, but in his absence…
If I were capable of tricking father, I'd be emperor of the world by now. You brought this on yourself. .
Quite right. You did nothing when your son called for Ned Stark's head. Now the entire North has risen up against us.
Did you? You failed. That bit of theater will haunt our family for a generation.
Who's won every battle he's fought. Do you understand we're losing the war?
Nothing. But I know people. And I know that our enemies hate each other almost as much as they hate us.
Joffrey is King.
I'm only here to advise him. And if the King listens to what I say, the King might just get his Uncle Jaime back.
You love your children. It's your one redeeming quality. That and your cheekbones. The Starks love their children as well. And we have two of them.
One?
Disappeared? What, in a puff of smoke? We had three Starks to trade. You chopped one's head off and let another escape. Father will be furious. It must be odd for you to be the disappointing child.
A bit corpsey, yes.
I thought you wanted to come here.
You love the smell of dead bodies and shit?
You can smell cum from the balcony?
And so did the country.
Yes, well, you need to be careful. No one can know you're here.
You can't trust anyone in King's Landing. They're all liars; good liars, bad liars, one or two great liars.
Me? I'm not from here. I'm a slave to the truth.
Why do you think I am so little? I'm being, , crushed beneath the weight of all that truth.
Ned Stark actually slept on this, as if the poor man didn't suffer enough. One of the many changes we'll have to make around here.
You brought this on yourself.
Do you understand we're losing the war?
It was quite a battle.
Strange things do happen. You should taste her fish pie.
Men like Lord Varys and I can't let our disadvantages get the best of us. We'll make a fisherman of him yet. .
Your discretion is legendary, where your friends are concerned.
I don't like threats.
I'm not Ned Stark. I understand the way this game is played.
And I am not. Threaten me again and I will have you thrown into the sea.
You've perfected the art of tearing up papers. Give him his father's bones back, at least, as a gesture of good faith.
Safe travels, cousin.
You have a deft hand with diplomacy.
Lord Commander asks that we send more men to man The Wall.
Cold winds are rising, and the dead rise with them.
According to the Commander, one of these dead men attacked him in his chambers. . Mormont doesn't lie.
Apparently you burn him.
I don't know what I believe, but here's a fact for you. The Night's Watch is the only thing that separates us from what lies beyond the Wall.
Leave us, Podrick. I believe we know how to pour our own wine.
Myself, I prefer the improper ones.
You know your wines, my lord.
Call me Tyrion, please. I'm sure you're getting used to fine dinners, now that you're a lord.
Wars have been started for less.
I heard there was some trouble in Littlefinger's brothel the other night.
Yes, of course. City Watch must keep the peace. Only, I hadn't realized peace depended on killing babies.
Quite right. Especially the queen's orders.
No, but who else would want to murder King Robert's bastards? She's always been a jealous woman.
You've heard the awful rumors about my brother and sister.
That's good of you, but you have heard them. I suppose people who do believe that filth, consider Robert's bastards to be better claimants to the throne than Cersei's children.
I appreciate your loyalty. Tell me.
The fool! He had no idea you were already bought.
I'm not questioning your honor, Lord Janos. I'm denying its existence.
Dwarf? You should have stopped at imp. And yes, you will stand here and take it from me, unless you'd like to take it from my friend here.
I intend to serve as Hand of the King until my father returns from the war, and seeing as you betrayed the last Hand of the King, well, I just wouldn't feel safe with you lurking about.
The queen regent. And you're a fool to believe she's your friend.
No, we shan't.
There's a ship leaving for East Watch by the sea tonight. From there, I'm afraid it's rather a long walk to Castle Black. I hope you enjoy the Wall. I found it surprisingly beautiful, in a brutal, horribly uncomfortable sort of way.
His name is Bronn... and he is the new commander of the City Watch.
To the new Commander.
If I told you to murder, an infant girl say, still at her mother's breast, would you do it without question?
I have every right. I am the King's Hand.
Listen to me, Queen Regent, you're losing the people. Do you hear me?
You might find it difficult to rule over millions who want you dead. Half the city will starve when winter comes. The other half will plot to overthrow you. And your gold-plated thugs just gave them the rallying cry, “The Queen slaughters babies.” . You don't even have the decency to deny it.
It wasn't you who gave the order, was it? Joffrey didn't even tell you. Or did he tell you? I imagine that would be even worse.
I'm no king, but I think there's more to ruling that that.
As has Jaime repeatedly, according to Stannis Baratheon.
She was my mother too.
Keep your voice down.
I don't intend for you to stay here. I might be able to bring you into the castle kitchens.
Again, only temporary.
But you wouldn't be a cook. You'd pose as a scullion.
Kitchen wench.
Yes, but-
Your lion wants to see you alive. We've come to a dangerous place. My sister wants to hurt me. She'll look for any weakness she can find. She can't know about you.
It's a compliment, my lady.
Language can be a bit tricky here.
Oh! Thank the gods. I haven't had a proper shit in six days.
Right. I'm so grateful to have a man of your vast knowledge and wisdom on my side.
Please.
I can trust you, Pycelle, can I not?
These are perilous times. And the crown must forge new alliances. And these alliances must often be sealed in matrimony.
I'm trusting the council with these plans, but the Queen mustn't know. We can't have her meddling in affairs that could determine the future of the realm. There's too much at stake.
I'm brokering an alliance with House Martell of Dorne. Princess Myrcella will wed their youngest son when she comes of age, ensuring their loyalty and their army, should we need it.
But remember, the Queen mustn't know.
I plan to marry Princess Myrcella off to Theon Greyjoy.
Precisely.
Theon's father loathes the Starks and will convince the boy to come to our side. Greyjoy can destroy the Northern army from within and we can have his father's ships.
But remember, you must tell no one.
I plan to wed Princess Myrcella to Robin Arryn of the Vale. Lysa is not fond of me. But perhaps the promise of a royal match will convince her to let bygones be bygones.
For men in our position, holding grudges can be an encumbrance, don't you think?
Who better?
The gratitude of the people of Westeros for helping to end this war, the adoration of the King for bringing the Vale back into the fold... and Harrenhal.
Never took you for a superstitious man. By all means, tear it down and rebuild. You'll be able to afford it. I plan to make you Lord of the Riverlands.
You served my family well in the matter of the succession.
I need you to deliver Lysa Arryn. I didn't need Janos Slynt. It's settled, then?
Good. Oh. And remember-
Myrcella's a princess. Some would say she was born for this.
Dorne is the safest place for her.
That's why we need to seduce them. We're going to need their support in the war your son started.
A guest.
It's done, Cersei.
You cannot stop it.
Just how safe do you think Myrcella is if this city falls? Do you want to see her raped, butchered like the Targaryen children? Make no mistake. They'll mount her pretty little head on a spike right beside yours.
No, afraid not. Sorry about that.
Yes, I fear so. Sorry about that, too.
Oh, that's a shame. You were to be the centerpiece of my next deception. My brother Jaime rots in a Northern stockade. I would see him released. That's where you come in.
No, he won't. But his mother might. How would you like to see your beloved Cat again?
Find him?
No, you don't.
You disappoint me, Grand Maester.
So loyal that you told the Queen about my plans to send Myrcella to Dorne.
See, I told Varys that I was giving the Princess to the Greyjoys. I told Littlefinger that I planned to wed her to Robin Arryn. I told no one that I was offering her to the Dornish. No one but you.
Cut off his manhood and feed it to the goats.
Well, make do.
How long have you been spying for my sister?
I don't like his beard.
How many Hands have you betrayed, Pycelle? Eddard Stark? Jon Arryn?
So you poisoned him?
But you let him die, made sure he succumbed.
Get him out of my sight. Throw him in one of the black cells.
For your trouble.
Good. One of my better ideas.
The Council has a reputation for serving past Hands poorly. I don't mean to follow Ned Stark to the grave.
Why, am I about to hear one?
Depends on the sellsword.
He has a sword, the power of life and death.
I've decided I don't like riddles.
What is the meaning of this?
What kind of knight beats a helpless girl?
Someone get the girl something to cover herself with. She is to be your queen. Have you no regard for her honor?
For what crimes? She did not fight her brother's battle, you half-wit.
The Mad King did as he liked. Has your Uncle Jaime ever told you what happened to him?
I'm not threatening the king, ser. I am educating my nephew. Bronn, the next time Ser Meryn speaks, kill him. That was a threat. See the difference?
I apologize for my nephew's behavior. Tell me the truth. Do you want an end to this engagement?
Lady Stark, you may survive us yet.
You think dipping his wick will cure what ails him?
Your visits are too few, cousin.
So it is. Will you take a cup with me? I find that mulled wine helps me sleep.
If my sister was so concerned for Pycelle, I would have thought she'd come herself. Instead she sends you. What am I to make of that?
And you've received these instructions directly from Cersei?
And you've waited this long to deliver the information?
Cersei must have great trust in you, allowing you into her chamber during the hour of the wolf.
She must be very glad to have you helping her from dusk till dawn.
Ah. Lavender oil. She always loved lavender oil, even as a girl.
An anointed knight, yes. Tell me, did Cersei have you knighted before or after she took you into her bed? What? Nothing to say? No more warnings for me, ser?
Have you ever given any thought to what King Joffrey will have to say when he finds out you've been bedding his mother?
Did she take you against your will? Can you not defend yourself, knight?
Did he tell you to fuck her, too?
Hated every moment of it, is that what you'll have me believe? A high place in court, a knighthood, my sister's legs spreading open for you at night. Oh, yes, it must have been terrible. Wait here. His Grace will want to hear this.
Save it for Joffrey. He loves a good grovel.
No, I think not.
You heard me. My father told you to obey my sister. Obey her. Stay close to her side. Keep her trust. Pleasure her whenever she requires. No one ever need know, as long as you keep faith with me. I want to know what Cersei is doing, where she goes, who she sees, what they talk of, everything. And you will tell me.
Oh, rise, rise. Let us drink to our understanding. Oh, you don't have a cup. Oh, well. Smile, cousin. My sister is a beautiful woman, and it's all for the good of the realm. Go back and tell her that I beg her forgiveness, that I want no more conflict between us and that, henceforth, I shall do nothing without her consent.
Oh, I'll give her Pycelle.
Yes, I'll release him in the morning. Cersei can keep him as a pet, if she wants, but I will not have him on the Council. I could swear that I had not harmed a single hair on his head, but that would not, strictly speaking, be true. Stay within one table length.
Accounts differ. Most seem to implicate Catelyn Stark in some way.
Some say it was one of his own Kingsguard, while still others say it was Stannis himself who did it after negotiations went sour.
It's not what Varys says. He says Renly's army is flocking to support Stannis, which would give Stannis superiority over us on both land and sea.
And I say Father raised you to have too much respect for money. Stannis Baratheon is coming for us, sooner rather than later.
She'll be safer in Dorne.
It so happens that I am. Myrcella is a sweet, innocent girl and I don't blame her at all for you.
Schemes and plots are the same thing. They are going to attack us. We need to be ready.
May I ask specifically what the king has in mind?
It's important that we talk about this.
Wildfire? You wouldn't lie to me, would you, cousin?
MThat's a lie right there.
Tell me, if the vile allegations against my brother and sister are true, do you think it will make Jaime more likely to kill you or less likely? When I tell him you're fucking her, I mean.
The smart money would be on more likely.
But then perhaps his own unnatural urges will give him sympathy for yours.
I suppose there's only one way to find out.
When did she tell you this?
Swear to me on what?
But I don't care about your life.
All right, all right. Enough. Even torturing you is boring. Just get out.
Oh, Lancel, tell my friend Bronn to please kill you if anything should happen to me.
Stannis has more infantry, more ships, more horses. What do we have?
Well, I've never actually been able to kill people with it.
He hasn't sent a raven in weeks. He's very busy. Being repeatedly humiliated by Robb Stark is time-consuming. We won't be able to hold the city against Stannis, not the way Joffrey's planning on holding it.
It's hard to argue with his assessment.
The king is a lost cause. It's the rest of us I'm worried about now.
You have to admire his imagination.
What? Demon monkey?
Blame me? I'm trying to save them.
Demon monkey.
I remember reading an old sailors' proverb, "Piss on wildfire and your cock burns off. "
My companion takes issue.
How much do you have?
My friend remains unconvinced.
I'm afraid I have to concur with my advisor, Wisdom Haylene. The contents of this room could lay King's Landing low. You won't be making wildfire for my sister any longer. You'll be making it for me.
Get the Prince back to the Keep now.
Move. Move!
Where's Sansa?
Oh, you blind, bloody fool!
We've had vicious kings and we've had idiot kings, but I don't know if we've ever been cursed with a vicious idiot for a king.
I can, I am.
They threw a cow pie at you, so you decided to kill them all? They're starving, you fool! All because of a war you started.
And now I've struck a king. Did my hand fall from my wrist? Where is the Stark girl?
If she dies, you'll never get your Uncle Jaime back! You owe him quite a bit, you know.
Take some men and go and find the Stark girl.
Are you hurt, my lady?
Well done, Clegane.
Since when do you light your own candles?
Stannis Baratheon's fleet has been spotted sailing north past Tarth, two hundred ships.
Yes, that's more than we have. He'll be at our gates within five days, four if he has the wind.
Rain fire on them from above." You're quoting Father, aren't you?
Call it tactics, not strategy. But, yes, he does have a good mind for it. The best mind, some would say. Sadly, he's not here. It's just you, me and Joffrey, the Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm.
He needs to start acting like a king. This war you started is coming to our doorstep. And if the entire city wants Joffrey dead
I thought the girls might help him.
I was wrong. If we can't control him
It's hard to put a leash on a dog once you've put a crown on its head.
The boy is more Robert than Jaime.
Sins?
You've beaten the odds. Tommen and Myrcella are good, decent children, both of them.
Do you have to do that here?
Yes, but do you have to do it here?
You should start wearing the gold cloak.
You're commander of the City Watch. You shouldn't be dressed like a common
Well, you're not sneaking through alleyways any longer. You're supposed to stand out.
Fine, fine. No gold cloak.
What?
What? What? Why are you staring at me?
To help me plan the defense of King's Landing.
Stannis will be here any day.
An History of the Great Sieges of Westeros. " By Archmaester Shevelathin. Shevelatesh.
I did not know. And how did you accomplish this marked drop in thievery?
For questioning?
We talked about this.
Stannis knows King's Landing. He knows where the walls are strongest, and he knows which gates are weakest. The Mud Gate. A good ram will batter it down in minutes, and it's only 50 yards from the water. That's where he'll land.
Pig shit.
Thank you, Podrick.
I have a certain sympathy for odd little boys.
Excellent lamprey pie. Were you slaving away in the kitchen all day? I hear Joffrey plans on fighting. An inspiration for the troops. The young king in his shining armor fighting to defend the capital against the wicked old rebel.
Younger boys are off fighting his war.
What is he, seventeen? Remember Jaime at seventeen?
It's not on the throne, either, sadly for all of us.
No, I'd say you possess above-average intelligence.
He'll have his Kingsguard protecting him. He has the finest armor gold can buy. He needs to be out there. The men will fight more fiercely seeing their king fighting beside them instead of hiding behind his mother's skirts. Any dessert?
Because he has thousands of spies in his employ. Because he knows everything we do before we do it.
Neither do you.
It's not that little.
Why are you smiling?
And why are you happy?
I thought you preferred blondes.
Why do you care who I fuck?
This is madness. Stannis will be here in days. You need me.
Where did you find her?
You've forgotten the most important thing about whores.
You don't buy them, you only rent them.
And how do I know you haven't killed her already?
I'm sorry they hurt you. You must be brave.
I promise I will free you.
Never.
I will hurt you for this. A day will come when you think you're safe and happy, and your joy will turn to ashes in your mouth. And you will know the debt is paid.
Shae!
You're beautiful.
We have to be more careful.
There are people who want to hurt me.
I would kill for you. Do you know that? I expect I'll have to before this is over. You're mine.
Promise me.
To strike? My dear nephew, you do see these men preparing the walls for siege? You do understand Stannis Baratheon sails this way?
A brave choice, Your Grace. I'm sure your men will line up behind you.
Imagine Stannis' terror.
You're an intelligent man. I'd like to think I'm an intelligent man.
I wish we could converse as two honest, intelligent men.
What do you want? Tell me.
My brother was the youngest Kingsguard in history. My sister became queen at the age of nineteen. When I reached manhood, my father put me in charge of all the drains and cisterns in Casterly Rock.
The water never flowed better. And all the shit found its way to the sea. I never expected to have any real power. So when my father named me acting Hand
I do. Last thing I expected.
I'd like to keep playing it. If Stannis breaches the gates, the game is over.
The Lord of Light wants his enemies burned, the Drowned God wants them drowned. Why are all the gods such vicious cunts? Where is the god of tits and wine?
We should sail there immediately.
A girl at the edge of the world is the least of our problems.
One game at a time, my friend.
If the city falls, Stannis will burn every Lannister he can find. Of course I'm afraid.
I'm a Lannister. I don't have a choice in all this. But it's not your war.
You can't fuck your way out of everything.
A wedding.
Is that it?" Nice touch. As if you don't know the name of every boy in town.
I'm entirely sure you're entirely sure what I'm suggesting.
Oddly enough, I do.
There must be twenty miles of tunnels beneath the city.
I'm not escaping. Strange as it sounds, I'm the captain of the ship, and if the ship goes down, I go with her.
Well, I'm not.
What of it?
Blood spells, curses, shape-shifting. What do you think?
Mmm, don't take it personally. I don't entirely trust myself.
No, I don't believe you have.
Remember, wait till the ships-
They must be far enough in-
I chopped wood once. No, I watched my brother chopping wood.
Nor you, my friend.
Of course we are. Just because I pay you for your services doesn't diminish our friendship.
Oh! "Enhances." Fancy word for a sellsword.
Lady Sansa and Sheila.
Shae, yes. Surely my sister has asked you to join the other highborn ladies in Maegor's holdfast.
Always been a great romantic, my nephew.
Will you?
Stay safe, my lady.
On the way.
Ser Lancel, tell the Hound to tell the king that the Hand is extremely busy.
That would make me the quarterman. It just doesn't have the same ring to it. Cut me in half and I won't be able to give the signal. No signal, no plan. No plan and Stannis Baratheon sacks this city, takes the Iron Throne, puts your pinched little head atop a gate somewhere. It might be quite amusing, except that my head would be up there, too. I've never much liked my head, but I don't want to see it removed just yet.
Archers to their marks.
Hold fast.
He's a serious man, Stannis Baratheon.
Rain fire on them.
Hound, form a welcome party for any Baratheon troop that manages to touch solid ground. Pod, run to the King's Gate. Bring any men guarding it here, now.
Can I get you some iced milk and a nice bowl of raspberries, too?
You're on the wrong side of the wall.
You're Kingsguard, Clegane. You must beat them back or they're going to take this city. Your king's city.
If you won't defend your own city, why should they?
Lead. Get down there and lead your people against the invaders who want to kill them.
I'll lead the attack. I'll lead the attack!
Pod, my helmet. Ser Mandon, you will bear the king's banner. Men, form up. Men Men! They say I'm half a man. But what does that make the lot of you?
There's another way out. I'm going to show you. We'll come out behind them and fuck them in their arses.
Don't fight for your king and don't fight for his kingdoms. Don't fight for honor. Don't fight for glory. Don't fight for riches, because you won't get any. This is your city Stannis means to sack. That's your gate he's ramming. If he gets in, it will be your houses he burns, your gold he steals, your women he will rape.
Those are brave men knocking at our door. Let's go kill them.
Attack!
Oh, fuck me.
Pod.
Pod! Find Bronn or Varys. Tell them I am here with Maester Pycelle. Tell them I am very much alive.
What happened?
Where am I?
Why should I believe you?
To create strife between my sister and me.
Would it be excessive of me to ask you to save my life twice in a week?
You're a good lad. Get Bronn, tell him I want four of his most loyal gold cloaks outside my door at all times.
Then my hill tribesmen.
Don't want to swim too close to a drowning man? And I thought we were friends.
It was good of you to come.
Believe me, you don't.
Well?
I'm a monster as well as a dwarf. You should charge me double.
That was the arrangement we made. I pay you and you lie to me.
Leave?
What would we do in Pentos?
I want to go with you.
I can't. I do belong here. These bad people are what I'm good at. Out-talking them, out-thinking them. It's what I am. And I like it. I like it more than anything I've ever done. Are you going to leave?
Pod?
What are they doing here?
No, I don't think so.
They stay outside.
Why are you here?
The man who cut me lost more than his nose.
Thanks to Father. Of course, it wasn't a rebel who tried to kill me.
Grand Maester Pycelle made the same joke. You must be proud to be as funny as a man whose balls brush his knees.
How do you know that?
What do I want from him? He's my father. Do I need to want something? I'm sure he loves me dearly, as any father loves his child, his baby boy. Yet he hasn't come to visit once since arriving in King's Landing. I lay here, my face split in half, but Father never came.
Why do you care what I want from him?
Slandered? When?
You did have your guards beat her. A girl of nine, I believe.
She lost an eye, if I remember correctly.
It's not slander if it's true.
Why are you so nervous about what I'm going to say to Father?
Any lies in particular?
Still makes me more clever than you.
A number of people in this city want to kill me. You're here to protect me.
Do you grow bored protecting me?
Poor? Poor? Under my patronage you've become a knight, you've served as Commander of the City Watch.
I'm sure you filled your pockets.
I thought we were friends.
How much?
Double?
I don't even know how much I'm paying you now.
The badge looks good on you. Almost as good as it looked on me. Are you enjoying your new position?
I was very happy as Hand of the King.
It wasn't your bed at the time.
Occasionally I drank with the harlots.
Why does everyone assume I want something? Can't I simply visit with my beloved father? My beloved father who somehow forgot to visit his wounded son after he fell on the battlefield.
I organized the defense of this city while you held court in the ruins of Harrenhal. I led the foray when the enemies were at the gate while your grandson, the king, quivered in fear behind the walls. I bled in the mud for our family. And as my reward, I was trundled off to some dark little cell. But what do I want? A little bloody gratitude would be a start.
I want what is mine by right. Jaime is your eldest son, heir to your lands and titles. But he is a Kingsguard, forbidden from marriage or inheritance. The day Jaime put on the white cloak, he gave up his claim to Casterly Rock. I am your son and lawful heir.
It is mine by right.
Why?
We've spoken of this. You cannot come here.
Did anyone see you? No.
You sure? My father does not make idle threats. Having you killed would be the high point of his week. You have to be absolutely certain.
All right. What is this problem?
Baelish doesn't have friends.
Oh, Ros? The redhead?
I try to know as many people as I can. You never know which one you'll need.
Yes, well, we shouldn't be judgmental about these things.
Oh, please. All right, yes, I fucked her once. Twice.
But since I met you, my lady, I've been with no one else.
Not as much as I like you, obviously, or she'd be the one torturing me right now. What did she say about Littlefinger?
Is there an idiot in any village who trusts Littlefinger?
We can't. Now that the Lannisters have discarded her, Sansa will have many suitors. A great beauty with a very old name.
Yes, she is, objectively, very. Her face is quite pleasing-to other men and to women, people in general. But not to me, of course. I only have eyes for you.
I don't even want to talk about her.
Only because you're making me.
This is cruel and unfair. Cruelly unfair.
Hmm, yes.
Only if you stop. But you mustn't come here again.
Do you hear me? You've come to a dangerous place full of dangerous people. Dangerous people.
Intimate. Lovely table. Better chairs than the old small council chamber. Conveniently close to your own quarters. I like it.
Far be it from me to hinder true love, but Lord Baelish's absence would present certain problems. The royal wedding may end up being the most expensive event in living memory. Summer has ended, hard days lie ahead. Not a good time to leave the crown's finances unattended.
Master of Coin?
I'm quite good at spending money, but a lifetime of outrageous wealth hasn't taught me much about managing it.
A surprising place to keep the royal ledgers.
Not for bastards.
Pod. Pod. Take them outside. I'll be there in a moment.
Only my life. Not all that significant, I'm afraid.
If only the Master of Coin had such power.
Oh, that. Of course. A simple misunderstanding.
We don't. I did fuck her once.
But we don't.
Why don't you ask her? Any advice for me on my new position?
If I had a gold dragon for every time I heard that joke, I'd be richer than you are.
Good point.
I've tried quite a few. Well, lots of work to do. Enjoy the Eyrie.
You think all reading is dull reading.
The secret history of the Seven Kingdoms is written in these pages.
Unless he made it all up, yes. Podrick, do keep up.
Podrick.
After a long consultation with my colleague Ser Bronn, I finally found a suitable reward for the services you've provided over and above what might be considered reasonable. Tell me, Pod, have you ever been with a woman?
Wonderful. Genna specializes in first-timers.
A fair enough repayment for putting your spear through my would-be killer's face, wouldn't you say?
Now, as it happens, Marei is quite the spear handler herself. She's here to thank you for staying by my side as the battle raged all around me.
Kayla is famous from here to Volantis in certain circles. One of four women in the world who can perform a proper Meereenese Knot.
She's here to thank you for being a thoroughly respectful fellow who's never once failed to address me as 'my lord.
Be back in time for my supper.
For years I've heard that Littlefinger is a magician. Whenever the crown needs money, he rubs his hands together and, poof, mountains of gold.
No.
Worse, he's borrowing it.
We can't afford to pay it back, that's what's wrong with it. The crown owes millions to my father.
Forgive a debt, my father? For a man of the world, you're strangely naive.
Well, ahem, the basic principle is I lend you money, and after an agreed upon period of time, you return it with interest.
Well, you have to.
This is why I don't lend you money. Anyway, it's not my father I'm worried about. It's the Iron Bank of Braavos. We owe them tens of millions. If we fail to repay these loans, the bank will fund our enemies. One way or another, they always get their gold back.
Ah, the return of the conquering hero. Does he have a little jaunt in his step?
You were gone a long time. I trust you got your money's worth. Or should I say my money's worth?
Oh, it was a gift, Podrick. This is more than I give you in a year.
Oh, then it's much more than I give you in a year.
Have you ever known a whore to turn down gold? They were happy enough to take it when I gave it to them.
What did you do to them?
And they seemed to like these things?
Only they weren't paid.
Is that what you're telling us?
Sit down, Podrick.
We're going to need details. Copious details.
I hope we might speak. In confidence.
About the events of the Blackwater. Perhaps this is the wrong time?
I thought one of your little birds might have knowledge of my sister's intentions to-
I didn't inherit Littlefinger's spies along with his position, I'm afraid. Which is why I'm coming to you. I need proof.
I need to know.
I don't know. Do I?
Yes, ahem. I feel the need for actual revenge against the actual person who tried to have me killed. Which will require a degree of influence, which-
The sorcerer.
Thank you for seeing me, my lady. I had hoped we might discuss a few financial matters.
It's the royal wedding. I'm told you had a hand in planning it.
It's shaping up to be a very involved affair. The word extravagant has been used.
I understand that.
But, as Master of Coin, it falls upon me to calculate the cost for the crown. As of now, it's a huge expense.
And we're at war, Lady Olenna.
Yes, and maintaining supply lines-
And we are so grateful for your contributions which are necessary for the preservation of the realm.
I would.
My lady-
Quite sufficient. Thank you.
Give me that.
What's she doing here?
You'll be pleased to learn that after one conversation with Olenna Tyrell, I've saved the crown hundreds of thousands on this wedding.
I'm Master of Coin. Saving money is important.
Stop that. You're making me uncomfortable.
Very well. She's a lovely girl. Missing some of Loras' favorite bits, but I'm sure they'll make do.
It wasn't my best, but-
Sansa is the key to the North? I seem to remember she has an older brother.
The Tyrell army is helping us to win this war. Do you really think it's wise to refuse them?
And how do we do that?
Wonderful.
You can't mean it.
Joffrey has made this poor girl's life miserable since the day he took her father's head. Now she's finally free of him and you give her to me? That's cruel even for you.
She's a child!
And if I refuse?
I was wed. Or don't you remember?
I don't suppose there's anything we can do about this.
It's hard to say which of the four of us is getting the worst of this arrangement. Probably Sansa. Though Loras will certainly come to know a deep and singular misery.
On a boat you built.
I'm your family. A member of your family who has actively contributed to that family's survival. Whether or not you or Father or anyone else wants to admit it.
Trying to have me killed is an odd way of saying thank you. There are two people in King's Landing who can give an order to a Kingsguard. Did you or did you not order Ser Mandon to kill me during the Battle of the Blackwater?
The impulse I understand. He hates me because I'm the only one who tells him what he really is. So, fair enough. He wants me dead. But his stupidity? He could have had me poisoned and no one would have known. But the king orders a Kingsguard to murder the Hand of the King in full view of his own army. The boy's an idiot.
I want you to tell me if my life is still in danger.
Seven kingdoms united in fear of Tywin Lannister.
You may escape, at least. Once Jaime gets back, Ser Loras may come down with a terrible case of sword through bowels.
Jaime or not, I'm truly fucked.
I beg your pardon, my lady.
Yes, it should be quite a wedding. I need to speak with you, Lady Sansa.
Alone, if I may.
Sometimes we think we want to hear something and it's only afterwards when it's too late that we realize we wished we'd heard it under entirely different circumstances.
How to begin? It's- this- this- this is awkward.
She's a child.
A tall child.
Not that young.
Older.
Shae isn't going to like it.
I should never have told you about that.
Two women to despise me and a whole kingdom to join them.
I don't pay you to put evil notions in my head. The ones already there don't need company.
Solid gold from the mines outside Lannisport. Smithed in Casterly Rock.
You could buy a ship with these.
What?
Of course you're not going anywhere.
I didn't ask for this marriage. I didn't want it.
That doesn't mean that- this is duty, not desire.
I don't have a choice. My father-
What would I do there? Juggle? I am a Lannister of Casterly Rock.
My feelings for you have not changed. I will marry Sansa Stark and do my duty by her.
I swear to you it will not be like that.
I will buy you a good home somewhere in the city. You will have fine clothes, guards to keep you safe, servants. Any children we might have will be well provided for.
Listen. Listen to me, my lady.
You are. You'll always be my lady.
Lady Sansa.
Oh, yes. The husband of your dreams. But you do look glorious. Perhaps we could have a moment alone. Do you mind? Podrick, could you escort Lady Stark's handmaiden?
My lady, I want you to know I didn't ask for this.
No, don't. You don't have to speak to me as a prisoner anymore. You won't be a prisoner after today. You'll be my wife. I suppose that's a different kind of prison. I just wanted to say- I'm just trying to say, very badly- I just- just want to say I know how you feel.
You're right. I have no idea how you feel. And you have no idea how I feel.
But I promise you one thing, my lady. I won't ever hurt you. Do you drink wine?
Well, today you have to.
Could you-
Thank you.
Of course. Of course. En-enjoy.
Rather less than I plan to be. Isn't it a man's duty to be drunk at his own wedding?
And?
What did you once call me? A drunken little lust-filled beast.
There you have it. Nothing to worry about. Drinking and lust, no man can match me in these things. I am the god of tits and wine. I shall build a shrine to myself at the next brothel I visit.
There will be no bedding ceremony.
Then you'll be fucking your own bride with a wooden cock.
A bad joke, Your Grace. Made out of envy of your own royal manhood. Mine is so small. My poor wife won't even know I'm there.
I am. Guilty. But- but it is my wedding night.
My tiny drunk cock and I have a job to do. Come, wife.
I vomited on a girl once in the middle of the act. Not proud of it. But I think honesty is important between a man and wife, don't you agree? Come, I'll tell you all about it. Put you in the mood.
Tyrion, Sansa. My name is Tyrion.
Nothing was ever wiser.
Astoundingly long.
Neck. You have one. How old are you exactly?
Well, talk won't make you any older. My lord father has commanded me to consummate this marriage.
Stop. I can't. I could, I won't.
If my father wants someone to get fucked, I know where he can start. I won't share your bed. Not until you want me to.
And so my watch begins.
You really ought to knock.
Hmm. Ser Eldrick Sarsfield and Lord Desmond Crakehall. Ser Eldrick Sarsfield and Lord Desmond Crakehall.
I have a list.
For laughing at me? Do I look like Joffrey to you? No, death seems a bit extreme. Fear of death, on the other hand-
My lady, people have been laughing at me far longer than they've been laughing at you. I'm the Halfman, the Demon Monkey, the Imp.
The disgraced daughter and the Demon Monkey. We're perfect for each other.
Who? Whom?
Ah. I could speak to Lord Varys and learn their perversions. Anyone named Desmond Crakehall must be a pervert.
I am the Imp. I have certain standards to maintain.
Lady Sansa!
Why sheep shift?
My lady-
Killed a few puppies today?
Roslin caught a fine fat trout. Her brothers gave her a pair of wolf pelts for her wedding. Signed Walder Frey.' Is that bad poetry or is it supposed to mean something?
No. She is no longer yours to torment.
Oh, I'm a monster. Perhaps you should speak to me more softly, then. Monsters are dangerous and just now kings are dying like flies.
You just sent the most powerful man in Westeros to bed without his supper.
A treasonous statement. Joffrey is king.
No. I think armies give you power.
Robb Stark had one, never lost a battle, and you defeated him all the same.
Oh, I know. Walder Frey gets all the credit. Or the blame, I suppose, depending on your allegiance. Walder Frey is many things, but a brave man? No. He never would have risked such an action if he didn't have certain assurances.
I'm all for cheating. This is war.
So that's why you did it? To save lives?
The Northerners will never forget.
Do you think she'll open her legs for me after I tell her how we murdered her mother and brother?
I will not rape her.
Use small words. I'm not as bright as you.
No, it's a very good lesson. Only it's easy for you to preach utter devotion to family when you're making all the decisions.
When have you ever done something that wasn't in your interest but solely for the benefit of the family?
Sansa.
Keep up.
It's not easy being drunk all the time. Everyone would do it if it were easy.
She doesn't deserve this.
There's nothing worse than a late-blooming philosopher.
Will you be facing your marriage to Ser Loras with the same philosophical spirit?
I seem to remember saying something similar about my own marriage.
So you can tell Father it was you who finally talked me into it?
You have children. How happy would you say you are?
Even Joffrey?
How long does it go on?
Every time we deal with an enemy, we create two more.
Please don't.
This is the Prince of Dorne we're waiting for, not one of your sellsword friends.
There's bad blood between the Martells of Dorne and the Lannisters of Casterly Rock. Has been for years.
No need for cynicism. I happen to be an accomplished diplomat.
Ah, here we are.
Can you read the sigils?
Boy knows his Dornish Houses.
And House Martell, a red sun pierced by a spear?
Well met, my lords. His Grace King Joffrey welcomes you in his name. My lord father, the King's Hand, sends his greetings as well. I am Tyrion Lannister of Casterly Rock, Master of Coin. Forgive me. I don't see Prince Doran in your company.
Yes, the king will be delighted to enjoy the company of a warrior as renowned as Prince Oberyn at his wedding feast.
And where is Prince Oberyn?
Very well. My lords, these fine men from the City Watch will escort you to your quarters in the Red Keep.
You must be weary after such a long journey.
We must find Prince Oberyn before he kills somebody or several somebodies.
You're famous for fucking half of Westeros. You just arrived at the capital after two weeks of bad roads, where would you go?
Prince Oberyn, forgive the intrusion. We heard there might be...
trouble.
I'm here to welcome you to the capital.
If there's anything I can do to make your stay...
Oh, I partook. Now I'm married.
Prince Oberyn, if I may, a word in private?
Oh, they take all kinds.
The king is very grateful that you traveled all this way for his wedding.
Well, speaking as a fellow second son, I have grown rather used to being the family insult.
Why did you come to King's Landing, Prince Oberyn?
I thought we were speaking truth.
I wasn't actually present.
I've heard rumors.
I wasn't there. I don't know what happened.
My lady, you do need to eat.
If I could have a moment alone with my wife.
I can't let you starve.
I swore to protect you.
My lady, I am your husband. Let me help you.
I don't know, but I can try.
I could get you essence of nightshade to help you sleep.
What happened to your family was a terrible crime. I didn't know your brother. He seemed like a good man, but I didn't know him. Your mother, on the other hand, I admired her. She wanted to have me executed, but I admired her. She was a strong woman. And she was fierce when it came to protecting her children. Sansa. Your mother would want you to carry on. You know it's true.
Of course. Of course. Prayer can be helpful, I hear.
What are you doing?
How many times have I told you? You can't visit me here.
Of course I haven't forgotten.
Things are a bit tense right now.
My nephew the king wants to murder me. My wife hates me because my father murdered her family. Oberyn Martell wants to murder everyone whose last name is Lannister.
I told you. It's not a good time.
Shae.
Love her? I barely know her. She's a child. She despises me.
Of course I don't love her.
Ship you away?
What in the world are you talking about?
Shh. I don't know what you're talking about.
Your new hand, it's nicer than the old one. Wouldn't you agree, Pod?
You're not eating. Why is no one eating? My wife wastes away and my brother starves himself.
You lost a hand, not a stomach. Try the boar. Cersei can't get enough of it since one killed Robert for her.
A toast. To the proud Lannister children. The dwarf, the cripple, and the mother of madness.
It's only wine.
What about your left?
You're the Lord Commander now. Command. Let others do the fighting. When was the last time Father used a sword?
Train, then. Learn to fight with your other hand.
You need a proper, discreet swordsman. As it happens, I have just the one.
Lord Varys. Breakfasting with the king?
Oh, to be foreign.
So I'm guilty of being seen with my own wife's handmaiden. My father will ask you if there's anything more and you'll tell him some clever lie.
Forgive me if I don't weep for you.
She won't leave. I've told her this is a dangerous place so many times, she no longer believes it.
The Lives of Four Kings." Grand Maester Kaeth's history of the reigns of Daeron the Young Dragon, Baelor the Blessed, Aegon the Unworthy, and Daeron the Good. A book every king should read.
Don't.
Don't call me that.
I'm afraid our friendship can't continue.
There's a ship waiting in the harbor bound for Pentos.
You'll have your own cabin, of course, and, across the Narrow Sea, a house, servants.
I'm a married man. My wife has suffered a great deal, as you well know. I don't want her to suffer anymore on my account. I need to uphold my vows.
I need to do right by her.
By our children.
I'm not afraid.
I need you to leave.
Shae.
You're a whore! Sansa is fit to bear my children and you are not. I can't be in love with a whore. I can't have children with a whore. How many men have you been with? Five hundred? Five thousand?
I have enjoyed my time with all of them and I have enjoyed my time with you most of all. But now that time is over.
You'll have a comfortable life in Pentos. Bronn will escort you to your ship.
Better her than you.
You saw her board the ship?
You saw the ship sail away?
How do you know?
There's someone following you?
Hello.
My lady. My lady.
Pay each of them 20 gold when this is done.
We'll have to find another way to thank the king.
One taste of combat was enough for me, Your Grace. I would like to keep what remains of my face. I think you should fight him. This was but a poor imitation of your own bravery on the field of battle. I speak as a firsthand witness. Climb down from the high table with your new Valyrian sword and show everyone how a true king wins his throne. Be careful, though. This one is clearly mad with lust. It would be a tragedy for the king to lose his virtue hours before his wedding night.
A fine vintage. Shame that it spilled.
Your Grace does me a great honor.
Let's find out.
I thought I might change out of these wet clothes, Your Grace.
If it please Your Grace, Lady Sansa is very tired.
Your Grace?
Podrick. Apologies for the stench.
A noble effort.
You're a good lad. Any word of Shae?
I suppose that's a good thing. What are they saying about me out there?
Do you believe I murdered Joffrey?
No. Gods, no. The world is a better place without him, but I had nothing to do with it. I would like to think if I were arranging a royal assassination, I'd plan it in such a way that I wouldn't be standing there gawking like a fool when the king died. Trial in a fortnight. Have they announced the judges yet?
Of course.
Who will vote exactly as my father tells him to vote.
Oberyn? Give it to my father. He never fails to take advantage of a family tragedy.
Oh, I can call my own witnesses? How generous of them. Very well, my wife. Sansa.
Gone?
No one had more 'cause to kill Joffrey than Sansa, but the girl is no assassin. Whoever killed the king wanted me to lose my head for it. And with my wife's disappearance, it makes me seem that much more guilty. Podrick.
They'll be following you now.
I don't know. They. They. The ominous they. The man pulling the strings. Or woman. My father. Maybe Joffrey was too much work for him. Sweet Tommen will be so much easier to handle. Whenever something bad happens to me, I assume it's my sister that had a hand in it. But say what you will of Cersei, she loves her children. She is the only one I'm certain had nothing to do with this murder. Which makes it unique as King's Landing murders go.
Varys could vouch for me if he dared.
Of course. Fetch Bronn. I have a job for him.
Why not?
And my brother? Will they at least allow me to see Jaime?
Ser Podrick Payne? Has a nice ring to it. What did you tell him?
Are you going to accept their offer?
Testifying against me wasn't a suggestion. If they can't tempt you with honey, they'll choose something less sweet.
Pod, the trial's in a fortnight. They'll want an answer before that.
I will not have you dying on my behalf. Do you hear me? If I have to take that long walk to the executioner's block, I don't want to see your head already mounted.
Pod, I am giving you an order. Go and find my brother. Tell him I need him. And get yourself out of King's Landing before it's too late. Pod! This is farewell.
Pod. There has never lived a more loyal squire.
Is that supposed to make me feel better?
It's complicated, yes. So how is our sister?
Her son?
My trial for regicide.Yes, I know. I know the whole bloody country thinks I'm guilty. I know that one of my three judges has wished me dead more times than I can count. And that judge is my father. As for Cersei, well, she's probably working on a way to avoid a trial altogether by having me killed.
So, should I turn around and close my eyes?
The Kingslayer brothers. You like it? I like it. You're really asking if I killed your son?
Well, you could set me free.
Then there's really nothing else to say.
Sorry, I'd forgotten. I'd hate for you to do something inappropriate.
Except I didn't do it.
Sansa couldn't have done this. She had more reason than anyone in the Seven Kingdoms. Do you think it's a coincidence she disappeared the same night Joffrey died?
No, but... Sansa's not a killer. Not yet, anyway.
Let me guess, I've been pardoned.
Really?
Well, we mustn't disappoint Father.
No.
Not that I know of.
Choked on his pigeon pie.
Or the pigeons. Just leave me out of it.
Oh, why don't you tell them what Joffrey was doing?
Pointing a loaded crossbow at Sansa Stark while you tore at her clothes and beat her.
Father, may I ask the witness one question?
You once said that without me, this city would have faced certain defeat. You said the histories would never mention me, but you would not forget. Have you forgotten, Lord Varys?
Not going well, is it?
Oh, you think so?
Ned Stark was promised the same thing and we both know how that turned out.
How do you know?
Shae. Please don't.
Father, I wish to confess. I wish... to confess.
I saved you. I saved this city and all your worthless lives. I should have let Stannis kill you all.
Yes, Father. I'm guilty. Guilty. Is that what you want to hear?
No, of that I'm innocent. I'm guilty of a far more monstrous crime. I am guilty of being a dwarf.
Oh, yes, I am. I've been on trial for that my entire life.
Nothing but this-- I did not do it. I did not kill Joffrey, but I wish that I had.
Watching your vicious bastard die gave me more relief than 1,000 lying whores.
I wish I was the monster you think I am. I wish I had enough poison for the whole pack of you. I would gladly give my life to watch you all swallow it.
I will not give my life for Joffrey's murder. And I know I'll get no justice here. So I will let the gods decide my fate. I demand a trial by combat.
I'm sorry, what am I grateful for? The opportunity to live and die at the Wall as punishment for a crime I did not commit?
Of course it's a joke, just not a very funny one. I couldn't- I couldn't listen to her standing there telling her lies. I couldn't do it.
Yes, I fell in love with a whore. And I was stupid enough to think that she had fallen in love with me. That deal you made, it was everything Father wanted. You do see that? He gets you back as his heir. The future Lord of the Rock. And he ships me off to Castle Black, out of sight at last. All so perfect. It felt good to take that from him. He knows I'm innocent and he's willing to sacrifice me anyway. He's willing to sacrifice any of us. Not you. You're the golden son. You could kill a king, lose a hand, fuck your own sister, you'll always be the golden son.
At least I got to tell them what they really are.
Don't give up on me just yet. I survived one trial by combat, even though you weren't there to save me.
Where's your sense of adventure? Even if you lose, imagine the look on Father's face when you fall.
Our family name snuffed out with a single swing of the sword.
Well... Bronn fought for me once, he'll do it again. If he wins, I expect I'll be in his debt for the rest of my life.
Will you find him for me? Who does Cersei plan on naming as a champion? I hope it's Ser Meryn Trant. I'd enjoy watching Bronn disembowel that pompous child beater.
You have new clothes.
I sent for you days ago.
Doing what?
Lollys Stokeworth? She doesn't strike me as your sort of girl.
She's dim-witted.
When my sister arranged this love match, did she mention that Lollys has an older sister?
And you understand the rules of inheritance?
She still gets Castle Stokeworth when her father dies.
You and my sister deserve each other. Why did you bother to come here?
Is it two wives you want or two castles?
I'm a bit short on castles at the moment. But I can offer you gold and gratitude.
You might be surprised. A Lannister always pays his debts.
My wife is heir to Winterfell. If I emerge from this with my head still on my shoulders, I may one day rule the North in her name. I could carve you out a big piece of it.
Does he frighten you so much?
Because you're my friend.
I understand.
Why are you sorry? Because you're an evil bastard with no conscience and no heart? That's what I liked about you in the first place.
Yes, we did.
I suppose I'll have to kill the Mountain myself. Won't that make for a great song?
I imagined you'd be back at the brothel at this hour.
Mm, do tell. I've got every kind of filth down here except the kind I like.
Oh.
Making honest feelings do dishonest work is one of her many gifts.
She didn't need to bother you. It looks as though I've taken care of that myself. The joy she will feel when my head leaves my neck. She's wanted this for a long time.
I think I would have remembered that.
You and my family have more in common than you might admit.
That would have made things so much easier.
Well... sooner or later, Cersei always gets what she wants.
If you want justice, you've come to the wrong place.
Wine always helps. I thank you for it. Trial by combat. Deciding a man's guilt or innocence in the eyes of the gods by having two other men hack each other to pieces. Tells you something about the gods. How much longer?
Do you think Oberyn has a chance? The Red Viper of Dorne. You don't get a name like that unless you're deadly, right?
Oh, he's going to die. I'm going to die.
That's putting it mildly. What's the punishment for regicide? Drawing and quartering? Hanging? Breaking at the wheel?
Seems rather ordinary. And he was my nephew as well, so what is that? Fratricide is brothers. Filicide is sons. Nepoticide. That's the one. Matricide, patricide, infanticide, suicide. There's no kind of killing that doesn't have its own word.
Cousins, you're right. There is no word for cousin killing. Well done. Do you remember cousin Orson? Orson Lannister?
Simple? Used to sit all day in the garden. Crushing beetles with a rock.
Nothing made him happier.
On the contrary. Laughing at another person's misery was the only thing that made me feel like everyone else.
For you. You drifted away.
Yes, other interests. But I stayed with Orson.
I was curious. Why was he smashing all those beetles? What did he get out of it? First thing I did was ask him. "Orson, why are you smashing all those beetles?" He gave me an answer. "Smash the beetles. Smash 'em. Khuu! Khuu! Khuu!" I wasn't deterred. I was the smartest person I knew. Certainly I had the wherewithal to unravel the mysteries that lay at the heart of a moron. So I went to Maester Volarik's library.
Turns out, far too much has been written about great men and not nearly enough about morons. Doesn't seem right. In any case, I found nothing that illuminated the nature of Orson's affliction or the reason behind his relentless beetle slaughter. So I went back to the source. I may not have been able to speak with Orson, but I could observe him, watch him the way men watch animals to come to a deeper understanding of their behavior. *picks up a beetle* And as I watched, I became more and more sure of it. There was something happening there. His face was like the page of a book written in a language I didn't understand. But he wasn't mindless. He had his reasons. And I became possessed with knowing what they were. I began to spend inordinate amounts of time watching him. I would eat my lunch in the garden, chewing my mutton to the music of "khuu, khuu, khuu". And when I wasn't watching him, I was thinking about him. Father droned on about the family legacy and I thought about Orson's beetles. I read the histories of Targaryen conquests. Did I hear dragon wings? No. I heard "khuu, khuu, khuu" and I still couldn't figure out why he was doing it. And I had to know, because it was horrible that all these beetles should be dying for no reason.
I know, I know. But still, it filled me with dread. Piles and piles of them, years and years of them. How many countless living crawling things smashed and dried out and returned to the dirt? In my dreams I found myself standing on a beach made of beetle husks stretching as far as the eye could see. I woke up crying, weeping for their shattered little bodies. I tried to stop Orson once.
He just pushed me aside with a "khuu" and kept on smashing. Every day until that mule kicked him in the chest and killed him. *puts the beetle back on the ground* So what do you think? Why did he do it? What was it all about?
Looks like very light armor.
You could at least wear a helmet. You shouldn't drink before a fight.
It could get you killed. It could get me killed.
Thank the gods.
Oh, get on with it you son of a whore.
What're you doing?
Who's helping you?
Varys?
I suppose this is goodbye, then.
Jaime, thank you. For my life.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
All my life, you've wanted me dead.
I loved her.
Shae.
I murdered her. With my own hands.
It doesn't matter?
Say that word again.
I am your son, and you sentenced me to die. You knew I didn't poison Joffrey, but you sentenced me all the same. Why?
I can't go back there. She's in there.
I am your son. I have always been your son.
I still don't see why I had to stay in this fucking crate once we set sail.
Do you know what it's like to stuff your shit through one of those air holes?
Pentos?
Much better.
I don't think I am anymore. A lord. Are you a lord if you kill your father? I don't suppose they revoke your nobility for killing a whore. That has to be happen all the time.
In a box. Why stop now?
The future is shit. Just like the past.
Eunuch, the spider, the master of whisperers.
Not for a coward.
You never told me why you set me free.
You could have said no.
Not as dangerous as releasing me. You risked your life, your position, everything. Why? You're not family, you owe me nothing.
A drunken dwarf will never be the savior of the Seven Kingdoms.
You're going to have to find another soldier. I'm done with Westeros and Westeros is done with me.
I'm not well-suited for work.
Compassion? Yes. I killed my lover with my bare hands. I shot my own father with a crossbow.
What is it you want exactly?
Where the castles are made of gingerbread and the moats are filled with blackberry wine. The powerful have always preyed on the powerless, that's how they became powerful in the first place.
I will never sit on the Iron Throne.
Good luck finding him.
Can I drink myself to death on the road to Meereen?
There's a bug.
When I agreed to come with you, did I misrepresent my intentions? Besides, what is there for me to do inside this fucking box?
I want to take a walk.
She ought to offer her cunt. Best part of her for the best part of me. Well, I suppose a box is as good a place for me as anywhere.
You're right. No point. The road to Volantis? You said we were going to Meereen. What's in Volantis?
And what do you hope to find at the end of the road to Meereen?
We've already got a ruler. Everywhere has already got a ruler. Every pile of shit on the side of every road has someone's banner hanging from it.
I didn't rule. I was a servant.
Managed to kill a lot of people.
She wanted me to leave King's Landing. She begged me. I wouldn't go.
Cause I liked it. Power. Even as a servant.
I find us repulsive.
You're right. Let's go for a walk.
How many dwarves are there in the world? Is Cersei going to kill them all?
I have to get out of this wheelhouse.
Mm, I have to get out of this wheelhouse.
I will not be of any use to Daenerys Targaryen if I lose my mind. I can't remember the last face I saw that wasn't yours.
I'm losing my mind.
Look, we are thousands of miles from Westeros. . What am I? . One more drunk dwarf.
Slaves.
The only red priest we had in King's Landing was Thoros of Myr. This one's much better looking.
Stone men. Good luck stopping this spread of grayscale with prayer. You'd have better luck dancing away the plague. .
We're going to meet the Saviour! You should have told me. Who doesn't want to meet the Saviour?
Come on. Let's find a brothel.
It's even better luck to suck a dwarf's cock.
See? We blend right in. Just two more travellers, mad with lust.
Curious... hair. .
It appears you're not the only Targaryen supporter.
Well, , she's taken.
I need to speak to someone with hair.
Hello?
You've got no drink.
Do I look like a man without money? . Never trust looks. Until quite recently, I was one of the richest men in the world. . But who needs wealth when you can make a woman laugh? . I always pay my debts, I'm well known for it.
That's because they've never met a queen.
You know how to spot a liar. If I could pick any girl here, I would pick you.
Because you have a skeptical mind.
I'm, I'm sorry, I can't.
I'm not.
Gladly, but this, I can't do. Believe me, no one is more shocked than I am. I hope it passes. What will I do in my spare time? I'll go for a piss, that's a start.
No need to worry, I was just - . Oh, I thought you were someone else. Shows almost over. I'm sure the girls inside will be happy to oblige.
You made some kind of mistake. Why don't you tell me what you think you are doing and -
Thank you. . Who are you?
Do you have wine?
I can't sleep without wine.
You're going the wrong way. My sister's in Westeros. Westeros is west! We're heading east.
You said you were taking me to the Queen.
What a waste of a good kidnapping. So happens I was heading there myself!
Gold and glory. Oh, and hate. If you've ever met my sister, you'd understand. So now that it's clear we're on the same side? . A high born knight from the North of Westeros, down on his luck in Essos. Dragon epaulettes? Bear sigil breast plate. You're Jorah Mormont. I have to ask how, exactly, were you serving your Queen in a whore house, half a world away? Is it possible, that you were running? Why would you be running? And why would she have sent you away? Oh, wait! You were spying on her, weren't you? It's all coming back to me! I was drunk through most of the Small Council meetings, but it's all coming back. You passed notes to Varys's little birds. She found out, didn't she? Found out, and exiled you. . And now you hope to win back her favor with a gift. A risky scheme. One might even say, desperate. Do you think Daenerys would execute me, and pardon you? I'd say the reverse is just as likely.
Don't worry. I'll be fine. Nothing broken, I don't think. Where are we now? Not the Rhoyne. . Long, sullen silences and an occasional punch in the face. The Mormont way. Let's start over. I apologize for before. My mouth sometimes runs away from me. This doesn't have to be an unpleasant trip. We're going to be spending a lot of time together on the way to Meereen.
What would make our time together truly enjoyable would be some wine.
I am a person who drinks. People who drink need to keep drinking. Otherwise, they're not…
I know where we are. You're taking us through Valyria.
Have you sailed this route before?
You're going to bring Daenerys a souvenir from her ancestral homeland in case I'm not enough?
You know what they say. The Doom still rules Valyria. What about the demons and the flames? Aren't you afraid of the Doom?
Oh.
The Smoking Sea. How many centuries before we learn how to build cities like this again? Thousands of years the Valyrians were the best in the world at almost everything. And then -
And then they weren't. "They held each other close and turned their backs upon the end. The hills that split asunder and the black that ate the skies; The flames that shot so high and hot that even dragons burned; Would never be the final sights that fell upon their eyes. A fly upon a wall, the waves the sea wind whipped and churned -"
I would clap.
I suppose this is it, then. This is what remains.
What was that?
Mormont, cut me free! . Mormont!
Mormont! Mormont!
You? . I've seen greyscale before, but nothing like that.
It'd be kinder to put daggers in their hearts and be done with it. . Thank you for saving me. Of course, I wouldn't have needed saving if you hadn't kidnapped me in the first place. . So what now?
Without luck?
That's the best idea you've had all day.
So, those villages we were supposed to find. We can't live on berries and roots.
You're not hungry?
You're an awful travelling companion, do you know that? Possibly the least charming man I have ever met.
We are travelling together. In each other's company. Therefore…
I sailed from King's Landing to Pentos in a crate. Without ever saying a word.
Never occurred to you to ask why until now? You never wondered why Tyrion Lannister decided to visit a brothel in Volantis.
I killed my father. He wanted to execute me for a crime I didn't commit. And he was fucking the woman I loved.
As miserable as you are, Mormont, at least your father was a good man.
I met him. I visited the Wall. When I asked him about his men he knew all the stories, every one of them. He actually cared about the people in his command. How did they put it in the Watch? “We shall never see his like again.”
You didn't know. I'm sorry. I am.
I only know what I heard
He was leading an expedition beyond the wall. There was a mutiny. He was murdered by his own men.
Why Daenerys? Why is she worth all this? As I recall, the Mormonts fought against the Targaryens during Robert's Rebellion.
I believe in many things.
No.
Doesn't mean she's going to be a great queen.
The Targaryens are famously insane. What if she conquers the world? Then what? 1,000 years of peace and prosperity?
We? Alright, let's assume your dreams come true. She's ecstatic when you bring her this enemy dwarf. She hacks off my head and restores your position. You command her army, sail to Westeros, defeat all your enemies, then watch as she climbs those steps and sits on the Iron Throne. Hurrah, long live the Queen. Then what?
So a woman who has not spent a single day of her adult life in Westeros becomes the ruler of Westeros? That's justice?
Why, because her father who burned living men for amusement was the king?
Why is it anchored?
Wait, wait! Wait, wait, wait, let's discuss this!
Wait, wait, wait, wait! You can't just hand a dried cock to a merchant and expect him to pay for it. He has to know it came from a dwarf. And how could he know unless he sees the dwarf?
Guess again.
The fighting puts in Mereen! You're in luck then, you're about to be rich. You are looking at one of the great warriors in the seven kingdoms.
Him.
Sure, he's a bit long in the tooth, a bit withered, been in the sun too long. We can all see that. But he is a veteran of 100 battles. They wrote songs about him!
He won the tournament at Lannisport, unseating Ser Jaime Lannister himself.
The Kingslayer!
Wait! You have to buy me as well.
We're a team. I'm a great fighter, too.
Thank you my Lord. Thank you.
My Lord, if I may. I've heard Mereen's become a free city. You might run into trouble if you try to fight slaves in the fighting pits. Now if you were to fight free men who were paid a wage…
What are you doing?
It's true. He has.
I am the gift. It's a pleasure to meet you, Your Grace. My name is Tyrion Lannister.
If only I were otherwise.
You want revenge against the Lannisters? I killed my mother Joanna Lannister the day I was born. I killed my father Tywin Lannister with a bow to the heart. I am the greatest Lannister killer of our time.
Into your service? Your Grace we have only just met. It's too soon to know if you deserve my service.
When I was a young man I heard a story about a baby born during the worst storm in living memory. She had no wealth, no lands, no army, only a name and a handful of supporters, most of whom probably thought they could use that name to benefit themselves. They kept her alive, moving her from place to place, often hours ahead of the men who had been sent to kill her. She was eventually sold off to some warlord on the edge of the world and that appeared to be that. And then a few years later the most well informed person I knew told me that this girl without wealth, lands, or armies had somehow acquired all 3 in a very short span of time, along with three dragons. He thought she was our best, last chance to build a better world. I thought you were worth meeting at the very least.
Because you can not build a better world on your own. You have no one at your side who understands that land you want to rule. The strengths and the weaknesses of the houses that will either support or oppose you.
Killing and politics aren't always the same thing. When I served as Hand of the King I did quite well with the latter considering the king in question preferred torturing animals to leading his people. I could do an even better job advising a ruler worth the name.
I know.
Whomever Ser Jorah was when he started informing on you, he is no longer that man. I can't remember seeing the same man as devoted to anything as he is to serving you. He claims he would kill for you and die for you, and nothing I have witnessed gives me reason to doubt him. And yet he did betray you.
Did he have an opportunity to confess his betrayals?
And did he?
He worships you. He is in love with you, I think. But he did not trust you with the truth - an unpleasant truth, to be sure - but one of great significance to you. He did not trust that you would be wise enough to forgive him.
A ruler who kills those that are devoted to her is not a ruler that inspires devotion. And you're going to need to inspire devotion, and lots of it, if you're ever going to rule across the Narrow Sea. But you cannot have him by your side when you do.
Have you decided yet whether you're going to have me killed?
I can see why you would think so. It's what your father would have done.
My father? Who publicly sentenced me to death? I'd say his thoughts on having me killed were abundantly clear.
Some day if you decide not to execute me, I'll tell you all about why I killed my father. And on that day, should it ever come, we'll need more wine than this.
So here we sit, two terrible children of two terrible fathers.
I've heard stories.
To see if you were the right kind of terrible.
The kind that prevents your people from being even more so.
Yes, that was wise. And you agreed to marry someone you loathed for the greater good. Very impressive. My own sister married someone she loathed as well, though not by choice and certainly not for the greater good, Gods forbid. She ended up having him killed.
It's not impossible that Varys was right about you after all.
Yes. He was the one who convinced me to come find you. He was my travelling companion before Ser Jorah seized that role for himself.
He did what he had to do to survive. He did a lot of other things that he didn't have to do. I suspect he's the main reason you weren't slaughtered in your crib.
Yes, oddly. He might be the only person in the world that I trust. Besides my brother.
That's the one.
Your queenly prerogative. I had given up on life until Varys convinced me you might be worth living for. You chop off my head? Well, my final days were interesting.
No? Banish me?
So if I'm not going to be murdered, and I'm not going to be banished...
Advise you on what?
The Iron Throne. Perhaps you should try wanting something else.
I'm not entirely joking. There's more to the world than Westeros after all. How many hundreds of thousands of lives have you changed for the better here? Perhaps this is where you belong. Where you can do the most good.
And when you get back to your home, who supports you?
Let's be generous and assume that's going to happen. Here in Slaver's Bay you had the support of the common people and only the common people. What was that like, ruling without the rich? House Targaryen is gone, not a single person who shares your blood is alive to support you. The Starks are gone as well, our two terrible fathers saw to that. The remaining Lannisters won't back you, not ever. Stannis Baratheon won't back you either, his entire claim to the Throne depends on the illegitimacy of yours. That leaves the Tyrells. Not impossible, but not enough.
It's a beautiful dream. Stopping the wheel. You're not the first person to have dreamt it.
The smaller man it is.
There's always been more than enough death in the world for my taste. I can do without it in my leisure time.
It's easy to confuse what is with what ought to be. Especially when what is has worked in your favor.
My father would have liked you.
Well said, you're an eloquent man. Doesn't mean you're wrong. In my experience, eloquent men are right every bit as often as imbeciles.
You can end this.
You can!
Stay close!
You love her, don't you? How could you not. Of course, it's hopeless for the both of you. Sellsword from the fighting pits, a disgraced knight. Neither one of you is fit consort for a queen. But, we always want the wrong woman.
Dwarf. I believe that's the word. Apologies. My Valyrian is a bit “nostril”.
Rusty” Thank you.
He's right. The dragon headed north. If we're going to find her, that's where we're to go.
And I intend to help her do it.
You betrayed her!
And she exiled you, twice, I believe?
Don't blame me for your crimes, Mormont.
Fine, fine, I suppose he can join us. Just as long as he promises not to kill me in my sleep.
Pardon me?
Not precisely, but I have other skills that'd be very useful--
I have fought. I don't claim to be a great warrior.
Middling.
And drink. I've survived so far.
I suppose there's no point in asking how you found me.
Well, she didn't execute me, so that's a promising start. Now the heroes are off to find her, and I'm stuck here, trying to placate a city on the brink of civil war. Any advice for an old comrade?
If only I knew someone with a vast network of spies.
I did miss you.
We're never going to fix what's wrong with this city from the top of an 800-foot pyramid
We'll be fine We're dressed like common merchants
You've spent a lot of time studying the way rich people walk?
It's a good thing you're not a boy anymore...because you have no cock
For your baby To eat
I know what mhysa means
Hard to know Our queen is not as popular in Meereen as she used to be
Very possibly Daenerys Targaryen took away their most valuable property, told them human beings weren't even property to begin with You can see why they're unhappy Of course, it could also be the freed men
Many of the former slaves feel that Daenerys has abandoned them
It's a problem
Fear has brought Meereen to a standstill Whoever you are, wherever you go, someone in this city wants to murder you We can't fight an enemy we don't know
And have you started looking for that someone?
Well, we won't be sailing to Westeros anytime soon
If I lost my cock, I'd drink all the time
Meaning no offense He makes dwarf jokes, I make eunuch jokes
You think them
Surely there's some good news lurking somewhere
Perhaps they can tell us their secret
What about the dragons? We have two of them here beneath the pyramid
Daenerys is the dragon queen Can't very well let the dragons starve, that's obvious
Dragons do not do well in captivity
That's what I do I drink and I know things
The dragons Aegon used to conquer Westeros ranged over hundreds of miles Then Daenerys's ancestors started chaining them up in pens A few generations later, the last dragons were no larger than cats They must be unchained or they'll waste away Missandei, how many times were you in the company of these dragons?
And did they ever harm you?
Dragons are intelligent More intelligent than men according to some maesters They have affection for their friends and fury for their enemies I am their friend
They will It's time they had their supper
I'm friends with your mother I'm here to help Don't eat the help
When I was a child an uncle asked what gift I wanted for my name day I begged him for one of you “It wouldn't even have to be a big dragon,” I told him “It could be little, like me”
Everyone laughed like it was the funniest thing they had ever heard Then my father told me the last dragon had died a century ago I cried myself to sleep that night
But here you are
Next time I have an idea like that, punch me in the face
What should we do while we wait? To pass the time, what should we do? What should we talk about?
You speak 19 languages You must occasionally use some of them to talk about things
You two, you spend a great deal of time together What would you be talking about if I weren't here?
That's good That's very good
But that's a report I was thinking more of a conversation A wise man once said the truth history of the world is the history of great conversation in elegant rooms
Me Just now All right, no conversations Let's play a game
You don't play games, either one of you, ever?
There, that's a start
Oh no, no, no Not that, of course not that Innocent games, fun games, drinking games
Until you do
Alright No drinking We can play without drinking It's a wonderful game I invented it Here's how it works I make a statement about your past If I'm wrong, I drink And if I'm right -- Maybe we can't play without drinking
Oh, you took your time
You see? You don't even have to worry about the local rebellion We only have to worry about the three rich foreign cities paying for it
If the Unsullied march off to reconquer Asatapor and Yunkai, who remain to defend the free people of Meereen?
You may be right
Possibly
It's a conversation
Tell me, can the little birds get a message to the good Masters of Astapor, the wise Masters of Yunkai, the benevolent enslavers of Volantis
I did As a clever man once told me, “We make peace with our enemies, not our friends”
Yes, that's the military approach And how has that worked here in Meereen? I represent the diplomatic approach
We enter these negotiations with open eyes Trust me My own recent experience with slavery has taught me the horrors of that institution
Long enough to know
And now you speak for the Good Masters of AstaporHere's to reversals of fortune
Let's make this simple, shall we? Tell me what you want
Queen Daenerys won't stay in Meereen forever Her path takes her westward
Friends, friends, friends, please
There have always been those with wealth and power and those with nothing That is the way of the world I'm not here to change the way of the world
You don't need slaves to make money There haven't been slaves in Westeros for hundreds of years and I grew up richer than any of you But our queen recognizes that she erred by abolishing slavery without providing a new system to replace it So here is the queen's proposal Slavery will never return to Meereen but she will give the other cities of Slaver's Bay time to adjust to the new order
Instead of abolishing slavery overnight, we will give you seven years to end the practice
Slaveholders will be compensated for their losses, of course, at fair prices In exchange, you will cut off your support for the Sons of the Harpy
Fine, fine, but you will cut it off all the same I do hope you accept, my friends You will not receive a better offer
Let us sail on the tide of freedom instead of being drowned by it And as a parting gift to our honored guests…
Give freedom a chance See if it doesn't taste every bit as good as what came before
My friends! Large sorry...you wait so fat time
Excellent
I did
I imagine this room was built so the rulers could intimidate the ruled
But I am not your ruler I'm not the Breaker of Chains I'm not the Unburnt And I am certainly not the Mother of Dragons
Because our queen chose me as her advisor Until she returns from her travels --
Soon You have my word
And that is exactly why Grey Worm took part in these negotiations As commander of the Unsullied, he knows hot to defeat the slavers and he knows when it is time to make peace
We offered terms
Those men respect you
As do I
I am not betraying her work I am trying to save her city
For a short time
You're right Slavery is a horror that should be ended at once War is a horror that should be ended at once I can't do both today
I don't trust the Masters I trust their self-interest They're trustworthy if they're convinced that working with me is in their self-interest
They look at me and they see a misshapen little beast Their contempt is their weakness They'll underestimate us every time and we will use that to our advantage
It's not enough.
It's not enough for Meereen to have peace. They need to know Daenerys is responsible for it. The Sons of the Harpy have a good story. Resist the foreign invaders. Our queen has an even better story. Mother of Dragons, Breaker of Chains and...all that.
Yes, but do they know who brought them security? Who brought about an end to the violence? We need someone the people trust, someone they know who cannot be bought or influenced.
Who said anything about “him”?
Welcome to Meereen.
That's about the extent of my Valyrian.
Thank you for travelling all this way. I know from personal experience how uncomfortable the journey can be.
The truth is we need your help. We had hoped that we could somehow persuade you to --
Yes.
She did indeed.
Ideally we'd avoid purifying too many nonbelievers. The Mother of Dragons has followers of many different faiths.
I'd settle for obeyed.
That sounds most excellent --
We'd be most grateful for any support you could provide the queen.
My friend has a healthy skepticism of religion, but we are all loyal supporters of the queen.
I'd call that a successful gambit.
Look around. The city has come back to life.
I did and it worked.
Spoken like a man who has never had to shave.
I'm going to miss you.
I hope you're right about this expedition of yours.
Most of all, we need our queen.
Varys.
The most famous dwarf in the world.
I am happy. You should both be as well. Not so long ago, this city was ready to devour itself.
Now it's like a man reborn.
Why don't you drink? Why don't either of you ever drink?
Why not?
And who made these rules? Your former masters?
Those miserable old shits didn't want you to be human. Have a drink with me.
And you? What's your excuse?
That's how you know it's working.
Here's to our queen. Anyone not drinking is disrespecting our queen.
To Daenerys Stormborn, Mother of Dragons, Breaker of Chains, long may she reign.
Do you like it?
Yes, yes. Fermentation. One day, after our queen has taken the Seven Kingdoms...I'd like to have my own vineyard. Make my own wine. The Imp's Delight. Only my close friends could drink it.
Tell me a joke, Missandei of Naath.
Grey worm?
Right. Three lords walk into a tavern- - a Stark, a Martell, and a Lannister. They order ale...
but when the barkeep brings them over, each of them finds a fly in his cup. The Lannister, outraged, shoves the cup aside and demands another. The Martell plucks the fly out and swallows it whole. The Stark reaches into his cup, pulls out the fly and shouts, “Spit it out, you see shit. Spit it out.”
It's funnier in Westeros.
Yes.
A story that's supposed to make you laugh, ideally. Not at the moment, perhaps.
Missandei, do you like the wine?
Tell a joke.
Ah!
You lied to us.
I once walked into a brothel with a honeycomb and a jackass. The madam says- -
I was wrong. I admit it.
The Unsullied could mount a defense off the beachhead. If the slavers' forces- -
And I have acknowledged that. I'm trying- -
All right, what should the army do?
And then?
Despite appearances, I think you'll find the city's on the rise.
Perhaps we should take shelter.
Meereen is strong. Commerce has returned to the markets. The people are behind you.
Well, not all the people, of course. No ruler that ever lived had the support of all the people. But the rebirth of Meereen is the cause of this violence. The Masters cannot let Meereen succeed. Because if Meereen succeeds, a city without slavery, a city without Masters…
it proves that no one needs a Master.
Do we have a plan?
You once told me you knew what your father was. Did you know his plans for King's Landing when the Lannister armies were at his gates?
Probably not. Well, he told my brother and Jaime told me. He had caches of wildfire hidden under the Red Keep, the Guildhalls, the Sept of Baelor, all the major thoroughfares. He would have burned every one of his citizens. The loyal ones and the trators. Every man, woman, and child. That's why Jaime killed him.
You're talking about destroying cities. It's not entirely different. I'd like to suggest an alternate approach.
We are here to discuss terms of surrender, not to trade insults.
Thank you for the armada. Our queen does love ships. Now, last time we spoke, we made a pact. You violated that pact. You declared war upon us. Though our queen does have a forgiving nature, this cannot be forgiven.
It always seems a bit abstract, doesn't it, other people dying?
Tell your people what happened here. Tell them you live by the grace of Her Majesty. When they come forward with notions of retribution or ideas about returning the slave cities to their former glory, remind the what happened when Daenerys Stormborn and her dragons came to Meereen.
Last time we saw each other was at Winterfell, yes? You were making jokes about my height, I seem to recall. Everyone who makes a joke about a dwarf's height thinks he's the only person ever to make a joke about a dwarf's height. “The height of nobility,” “a man of your stature,” “someone to look up to.” You're all making the same five or six jokes.
It was. And how have things been going for you since then? Not so well, I gather. Can't imagine you would have murdered the Stark boys if things had been going well.
Doesn't seem like it. He's still alive. It was complicated for you, I'm sure, growing up at Winterfell. Never quite knowing who you were. But then, we all live complicated lives, don't we?
We can agree upon that at least.
With the former Masters' fleet, possibly. Barely. There are more than 100 ships in the Iron Fleet.
The Seven Kingdoms.
What if everyone starts demanding their independence?
How did he take it?
I know it was hard for you. You turned away a man who truly loves you because he would have been a liability in the Seven Kingdoms. That's the kind of self-sacrifice that makes for a good ruler, if it's any consolation.
No, I suppose not. I'm terrible at consoling.
All right, how about the fact that this is actually happening? You have your armies, you have your ships, you have your dragons. Everything you've ever wanted since you were old enough to want anything. It's all yours for the taking. Are you afraid?
Good. You're in the great game now. And the great game's terrifying. The only people who aren't afraid of failure are madmen like your father.
He wasn't the first to love you and he won't be the last.
For what it's worth, I've been a cynic for as long as I can remember. Everyone's always asking me to believe in things-- family, gods, kings, myself. It was often tempting until I saw where belief got people. So I said no, thank you to belief. And yet here I am.
I believe in you. It's embarrassing, really. I'd swear you my sword, but I don't actually own a sword.
It's yours. Now and always.
On a night like this, you came into the world.
We won't stay on Dragonstone for long.
Conquering Westeros would be easy for you. But you're not here to be queen of the ashes.
We can take the Seven Kingdoms without turning it into a slaughterhouse. If the great houses support your claim against Cersei, the game is won. With the Tyrell army and the Dornish on our side, we have powerful allies in the south.
Your Grace, when I was ready to drink myself into a small coffin, Lord Varys told me about a queen in the east who--
Lord Varys has proven himself a loyal servant.
Doesn't really roll off the tongue, does it?
Jon Snow? Ned Stark's bastard?
I traveled with him to the Wall when he joined the Night's Watch.
I can't speak to prophecies or visions in the flames, but I like Jon Snow and I trusted him, and I am an excellent judge of character.
If he does rule the north, he would make a valuable ally. The Lannisters executed his father and conspired to murder his brother. Jon Snow has even more reason to hate Cersei than you do.
If we turn the dragons loose, tens of thousands will die in the firestorms.
I know how you wage war. We don't poison little girls here. Myrcella was innocent.
But we won't use Dothraki and Unsullied.
Cersei will try to rally the lords of Westeros by appealing to their loyalty, their love for their country. If we besiege the city with foreigners, we prove her point. Our army should be Westerosi.
You are.
Lady Greyjoy will escort you home to Sunspear and her Iron Fleet will ferry the Dornish army back up to King's Landing.
The Dornish will lay siege to the capital alongside the Tyrell army. Two great kingdoms united against Cersei.
The unsullied will have another objective. For decades House Lannister has been the true power in Westeros. And the seat of that power is Casterly Rock. Grey Worm and the Unsullied will sail for the Rock and take it.
The bastard of Winterfell.
I believe we last saw each other on top of the wall.
It's been a long road. But we're both still here.
I'm Tyrion Lannister.
and DAVOS shake hands.
Ah, the Onion Knight. We fought on opposite sides at the Battle of Blackwater Bay.
Missandei is the queen's most trusted advisor.
And Sansa, I hear she's alive and well.
Does she miss me terribly?
A sham marriage and unconsummated.
Well, it was. It wasn't. Anyway, she's much smarter than she lets on.
Good. At some point I want to hear how a Knight's Watch recruit became King in the North.
A long and bloody tale. To be honest, I was drunk for most of it.
Of course they do. If I was your hand I would have advised against it. General rule of thumb, Stark men don't fare well when they travel south.
I'd say you get used to them, but you never really do.
Come. Their mother is waiting for you.
Your Grace, this is Ser Davos Seaworth.
Forever.
Almost.
I do.
I believe he's calling all of us children. Figure of speech.
The Army of the Dead?
No, I don't think you're either of those things.
The war against my sister has already begun. You can't expect us to halt hostilities and join you in fighting --
whatever you saw beyond the wall.
If it doesn't matter you might as well kneel.
Swear your allegiance to Queen Daenerys. Help her to defeat my sister and together our armies will protect the north.
It takes no time to bend the knee. Pledge your sword to her cause.
I came out here to brood over my failure to predict the Greyjoy attack. You're making it difficult. You look a lot better brooding than I do. You make me feel like I'm failing at brooding over failing.
I wouldn't say you're a prisoner on this island. You're free to walk the castle, the beaches, to go wherever you want.
I wouldn't say we took your ship.
Why don't you figure out what to do about my missing fleet and murdered allies, and I'll figure out what to do about your walking dead men.
I do actually.
It was all nonsense. Everybody knew it. But then Mormont saw them and you saw them, and I trust the eyes of an honest man more than I trust what everybody knows.
Good question.
People's minds aren't made for problems that large. White Walkers, the Night King, Army of the Dead, it's almost a relief to confront a familiar monster like my sister.
It seems unlikely that you became King in the North by giving up that easily.
Children are not their fathers, luckily for all of us. And sometimes there's more to foreign invaders than northern fools that meets the eye. Daenerys could have sailed for Westeros long ago but she didn't. Instead she stayed where she was and saved many people from horrible fates some of whom are on this island with us right now. While you're our guest here you might consider asking them what they think of the Mad King's daughter. She protects people from monsters, just as you do. That's why she came here. And she's not about to head north to fight an enemy she's never seen on a word of a man she doesn't know after a single meeting. That's not a reasonable thing to ask.
So do you have anything reasonable to ask?
Maybe you are a northern fool. I'm asking if there's something I can do to help you.
Yes. Volcanic glass, obsidian. He says you have a tremendous amount of it here.
Which is why I was speaking to Jon Snow, a potential ally.
Apparently it can be turned into weapons that kill White Walkers and their foot soldiers, or stop them, destroy them. I'm unsure of the nomenclature.
I'd very much like to believe that Jon Snow is wrong, but a wise man once said that you should never believe a thing simply because you want to believe it.
I don't remember.
I would never do that...to you. The reason I believe Jon Snow is because he's here. All of his advisors would have told him not to come. I would have told him not to come, yet he's here anyway. You don't have to believe him. Let him mine the Dragonglass. If he's wrong it's worthless. You didn't even know it was here. It's nothing to you. Give him something by giving him nothing. Take a step toward a more productive relationship with a possible ally. Keep him occupied while we focus on the task at hand. Casterly Rock.
You must allow them their flights of fancy. It's dreary in the north.
But you'll have to go yourself. Euron's ships could be anywhere or in more than one place. You'd be flying around the open seas alone for who knows how long.
It's too great a risk. You're too important.
Yes. Cersei believes my sole purpose in life is to destroy House Lannister. She will be ready.
No one has ever taken the rock.
The Lannister army is still the army my father built. Well trained and well provisioned. 10,000 men at least. They will see us coming.
They will be ready.
The gates of Casterly Rock are impregnable.
The fight up the walls will be hard. We'll be at a disadvantage. Many men will die.
Interesting thing about my father. He built our house up from near ruin. He built our army. He built Casterly Rock as we know it, but he didn't build the sewers. That was beneath him. So he gave the job to the lowest person he could find. Me. He was right. I was low. The company I kept low, women mostly. They weren't welcome at the Rock. Father disapproved of that sort of behavior. I couldn't walk them through the front gates. I couldn't have them in my chambers. So in the process of building the sewers I threw in something for myself.
It was a passage that began by the sea and ended beneath one of the main guard towers.
No better place for low pursuits. Casterly Rock, the impregnable fortress.
As a good friend of mine once said, "give me 10 good men and I'll impregnate the bitch."
And so it begins. They will face the bulk of the Lannister forces. They will be outnumbered. They will have less armor and fewer weapons.
But as my sister's armies fights for her, the Unsullied will be fighting for something greater. They will be fighting for freedom and the person who gave it to them. They will be fighting for you. And that is why they will triump.
We took Casterly Rock.
and VARYS look at each other. They aren't eager to deliver the bad news.
We still have the largest army.
Call Grey Worm and the Unsullied back. We still have enough ships to carry the Dothraki to the mainland. Commit to the blockade of King's Landing. We have a plan. It's still the right plan.
If I've underestimated our enemies --
We've discussed this.
A smart one.
walks to the edge of the battlefield accompanied by Dothraki guards. He can see Lannisters being slaughtered. One of the Dothraki guards begin to speak.
is watching the mayhem. Men are screaming and engulfed in flames. Horses and carriages run wild with no driver. JAIME is still on the battlefield struggling against the horde. Burning Lannister men are taking off their helmets revealing melted faces. Men crawl to the river in search of relief from the dragonfire. DROGON and DAENERYS are flying over the river creating wake in the water. JAIME sees her approaching his position.
Flee, you idiot!
You fucking idiot.
is walking over an ash covered ground. There are burned bodies and cargo strewn about. Dothraki are looting dead Lannister soldies. A group of mounted Dothraki are escorting captured Lannister soldiers to where DAENERYS and DROGON are awaiting the prisoners. DAENERYS addresses the captured soldiers.
My sister, she wasn't your queen until recently though, was she, until she murdered your rightful queen and destroyed House Tyrell for all time. So it appears your allegiances are somewhat flexible.
turns to speak to DAENERYS.
Perhaps he could take the black, Your Grace. Whatever else he is, he is a true soldier. He would be invaluable at the Wall.
You are the future of your house. This war has already wiped one great house from the world. Don't let it happen again. Bend the knee.
turns to speak to DAENERYS. He speaks softly so no one but the queen can hear.
Your Grace, nothing strips bold notions from a man's head like a few weeks in a dark cell.
Your Grace, if you begin beheading entire families --
pauses and looks over the DROGON. DRGON roars and shakes his head and flexes his wings.
Your Grace --
All rulers demand that people bend the knee. It's why they're rulers. She gave Tarley a choice. A man who had taken up arms against her. What else could she do?
I am her hand, not her head. I can't make her decisions for her.
Daenerys is not her father.
looks down at the note in VARYS's hand.
Who is that for?
Did you read it?
pauses and drinks from his cup of wine.
What's it say?
Perhaps not. Cersei thinks the Army of the Dead is nothing but a story made up by wet nurses to frighten children. What if we prove her wrong?
begins walking around the table closer to JON.
So bring the dead to her.
We don't have to bring the whole army. Only one soldier.
Bring one of these things down to King's Landing and show her the truth.
The only person she listens to is Jaime. He may listen to me.
nods his head.
Last time I was here I killed my father with a crossbow.
turns to look at DAVOS. DAVOS walks next to TYRION and stakes the boat anchor into the sand.
begins walking towards the path. DAVOS follows him and quickly takes the lead. TYRION stops and looks back towards the unattended boat.
You're not staying here?
What if someone takes the boat?
I needed to see you and I knew you'd never agree to meet.
You made me look like a complete fool. I thought I'd surprise you by hitting Casterly Rock, but you were three steps ahead of me. You abandoned the family home. Completely unsentimental. Father would have been proud.
Listen to me --
glances down at the sword in JAIME's hand.
It would take you awhile with a sparring sword.
He was going to execute me. He knew I was innocent. He didn't hate me because of anything I did, he hated me because of what I am. The little monster sent to punish him. Do you think I wanted to be born this way? Did he think I chose --
Daenerys will win this war. You're a military man. You must know there is no way around it. Daenerys is not her father. She's even willing to suspend hostilities if Cersei agrees to certain terms.
I -- I don't. Daenerys doesn't. Not right now anyway. She has a more important request.
Fish hook. Some men you just can't teach.
He'll do.
You may not believe it, but I've missed you Mormont. Nobody glowers quite like you. Not even Grey Worm.
retrieves a gold coin from his pocket and turns it in his hands.
This is the coin the slaver gave me when I suggested he free us and pay us. Remember?
smiles and hands the coin to JORAH.
Take it with you. You'll bring it back. Our queen needs you.
is sitting in a chair staring into the fire. DAENERYS stands across the room next to the painted table.
turns to look at DAENERYS.
I honestly don't.
Oh. I've been heroic on occasion.
I once charged through the mud gate of King's Landing.
It's interesting these heroes you name. Drogo, Jorah, Dario, even this Jon Snow, they all fell in love with you.
Oh, my mistake. I suppose he stares at you longingly because he's hopeful for a successful military alliance.
A million, give or take.
There's more work in the city. And the brothels are far superior.
I imagine it was a sad joke at the end. An entire arena for a few sickly creatures smaller than dogs. But in the beginning, when it was home to Balerion the Dread, it must have been the most dangerous place in the world.
A pleasant surprise in an unpleasant situation.
Supporting the enemy, no less.
Cersei will anyway.
Here we are the heroes of Blackwater Bay. Strange place for a reunion.
I don't think I'm anyone's lord anymore, Podrick. Save the titles for Ser Bronn of the Blackwater.
You've been thinking about our new queen.
Are you? Helping me to arrange this meeting wasn't exactly looking after yourself, was it? You put yourself at risk.
It's good to see you again.
You might.
And some Clegane cunt to help them see it through.
She'll be here soon.
No.
We are all facing a unique
I think we ought to begin with larger concerns.
Do you remember when we discussed dwarf jokes? His wasn't even good. He explained it at the end. Never explain. It always ruins it.
We are a group of people who do not like one another, as this recent demonstration has shown. We have suffered at each other's hands. We have lost people we love at each other's hands. If all we wanted was more of the same, there would be no need for this gathering. We are entirely capable of waging war against each other without meeting face-to-face.
We all know that will never happen.
There is no conversation that will erase the last 50 years. We have something to show you.
I'm pleased you bent the knee to our queen
That is indeed a problem. The more immediate problem is that we're fucked.
Only one. Everyone stays here, and I go and talk to my sister.
I don't want Cersei to murder me either. I could have stayed in my cell and saved a great deal of trouble.
She'll definitely murder you. I go see my sister.
You spoke with her?
I'm about to step into a room with the most murderous woman in the world who's already tried to kill me twice, that I know of. Who's an idiot?
A foreign whore you can't abduct, beat, or intimidate. That must be difficult for you.
I didn't know about that.
Cersei, I didn't know.
I am the one preventing that from happening. Daenerys didn't want to debate and negotiate. She didn't want to bring you words. She wanted to bring you fire and blood until I advised her otherwise. I don't want to destroy our family. I never have.
After he sentenced me to death for a crime I didn't commit, yes, I killed him. Hate me for it if you want. I hate myself for it in spite of what he was, in spite of what he did to me.
I have never been more sorry about anything.
All right. You love your family, and I have destroyed it. I will always be a threat. So put an end to me.
If it weren't for me, you'd have a motherIf it weren't for me, you'd have a father.
I am more sorry about the children than you could ever know.
I don't care. I loved them. You know I did. You know it in your heart if there's anything left of it.
If there's no future, then why are we here? Why did you allow me to come?
Yes, no, not what you hoped for, but you must have hoped for something.
Mm, not like this.
Yes.
Because I think she will make the world a better place.
She knows herself. She chose an advisor who would check her worst impulses instead of feeding them.
You're pregnant.
You should consider yourself lucky. At least your balls won't freeze off.
Because I have balls, and you don't.
If anyone survives the war to come, we'll have Jon Snow to thank. He risked his life to show us the threat is real. Thanks to his courage, we have brought with us the greatest army the world has ever seen. We have brought two full-grown dragons. And soon, the Lannister army will ride north to join our cause.
I know, I know, our people haven't been friends in the past. But we must fight together now or die.
My lord. My lady.
The Lady of Winterfell. Has a nice ring to it.
Last time we spoke was at Joffrey's wedding. Miserable affair.
Yes, it was a bit hard to explain why my wife fled moments after the king's murder.
Many underestimated you. Most of them are dead now.
I'm sure you weren't thrilled to hear the Lannister army's marching north. You have every right to be fearful of my sister. No one fears her more than I do. But I promise, you'll be safe-
She did.
She has something to live for now. I believe she wants to survive.
One of the better sigils. Beats an onion, anyway.
And our queen is grateful.
I sense that you're leading to a proposal.
They do make a handsome couple.
I'm not that old.
Not as old as him.
Our queen respects the wisdom of age.
What is that?
Your Grace, I know my brother-
He came here alone, knowing full well how he'd be received. Why would he do that if he weren't telling the truth?
I was a fool.
I suspect one of you will be wearing this before it's all over.
Well, here we are.
Together again.
And the masses rejoice.
She's your new queen too.
They remember what happened the last time Targaryens brought dragons north. They'll come around once they see Daenerys is different.
She is.
I am.
It's hard to blame her. I made a mistake common to clever people. I underestimated my opponents.
Cersei told me the pregnancy had changed her. A chance for you both to start again. And I believed her.
Was she lying about the baby too?
She never fooled you. You always knew exactly what she was, and you loved her anyway.
So we're going to die at Winterfell. Not the death I wouldo ve chosen. I always pictured myself dying in my own bed, the age of 80, with a belly full of wine and-
My cock.
At least Cersei won't get to murder me. I'm sure I'll feel some satisfaction denying her that pleasure while I'm being ripped apart by dead men.
Maybe after I'm dead I'll march down to King's Landing and rip her apart.
How will he find you?
When the time comes, Ser Davos and I will be on the walls, to give you the signal to light the trench.
Your Grace, I have fought before, I can do it again. Alongside the men and women risking their lives.
Do you need help?
You've had a strange journey.
I'd like to hear about it.
If only we were trapped in a castle, in the middle of winter, with nowhere to go.
I wish Father were here.
I would love to see the look on his face when he realizes his two sons are about to die defending Winterfell.
I remember the first time we were here, the first time I saw this hall.
You were a golden lion. I was a drunken whore-monger. It was all so simple.
I was speaking in relative terms.
Of course I miss it.
It's not. Things would be easier if it were.
The perils of self-betterment.
To contemplate your imminent death. You've come to the right place. You want some of this piss? It's not bad. It's not good either.
And you?
Ser Davos, join us.
Would you like a drink?
It's strange, isn't it? Almost everyone here's fought the Starks at one time or another. And here we are in their castle, ready to defend it. Together.
I think we might live.
I-I do. How many battles have we survived between us? Ser Davos Seaworth. Survivor of both the Blackwater and the Battle of the Bastards.
Mm. Ser Jaime Lannister, fabled hero of the Siege of Pyke.
Hear, hear! Ser Brienne of Tarth. Defeated the Hound in-Pardon me, Lady Brienne.
Ser Brienne of Tarth! Knight of the Seven Kingdoms!
No, let's stay a bit longer.
How about a song? One of you must know one. Ser Davos?
Ser Brienne?
Mmm.
If we were up there, we might see something everyone else is missing. Something that makes a difference.
What? Remember the Battle of Blackwater? I brought us through the Mud Gate.
And it made a difference. If I was out there right now...
You might be surprised at the lengths I'd go to avoid joining the Army of the Dead. I could think of no organization less suited to my talents.
Maybe we should have stayed married.
What a terrifying thought.
Why not?
Come on! Come on! No! No, no, no!
A fitting reward for a hero.
And a Lord of Storm's End who will be forever loyal to you.
I'm sure you had your reasons.
So did you?
I don't imagine thinking about that subject will leave you any happier than before.
Then you're in luck. We may have defeated them, but we still have us to contend with.
This is clever. Even better than the saddle I designed for you.
You know our history better than anyone. That will be useful as Lord of Winterfell.
You're the only surviving trueborn son of Ned Stark.
You don't want it.
I envy you.
Your Grace?
There's something you need to know.
Yes.
Varys.
He does.
I'm glad Sansa told me. I am your Hand. I need to be aware of any threats you're facing.
Your Master of Whisperers needs to be aware too.
It was a mistake.
She trusts me.
If I have failed you, my queen, forgive me. Our intentions were good. We wanted what you want. A better world, all of us. Varys as much as anyone.
But it doesn't matter now.
It was me.
The people who live there, they're not your enemies. They're innocents, like the ones you liberated in Meereen.
They're afraid. Anyone who resists Cersei will see his family butchered. You can't expect them to be heroes. They're hostages.
What does it matter whose fault it is? Thousands of children will die if the city burns.
I beg you, my queen-
Cersei's followers will abandon her if they know the war is lost. Give them that chance. If the city surrenders, they will ring the bells and raise the gates. Please, if you hear them ringing the bells, call off the attack.
She wants to attack now.
Davos. I need to ask you a favor. You're the greatest smuggler alive, aren't you?
I drink to eat the skull keeper.
I want to eat the skull keeper.
I want to see the ...
Ah. Good. I want to be alone with the prisoner. Get some rest. Tomorrow will be a long day.
Ordered by whom? The queen herself?
Well, in that case, as Hand of the Queen, I outrank whomever gave your order. Probably by quite a lot.
How did they find you?
Did you consider taking it off?
And you're going back to her, to die with her.
She's going to die. Unless you can convince her to change her course of action.
Try. If not for yourself, if not for her, then for every one of the million people in that city, innocent or otherwise.
You do care for one innocent. I know you do. And so does Cersei. She has a reason now.
She won't. Her enemy's forces have been depleted, as she said they would be.
The city will fall tomorrow.
I defended the city last time it was attacked. I know it better than anyone. It will fall tomorrow.
Why?
Escape. The two of you, together. Remember where we met, where they keep the dragon skulls, beneath the Red Keep? Take her down there. Keep following the stairways down, down as far as they'll go. You'll come out onto a beach at the foot of the keep. A dinghy will be waiting for you. Sail out of the bay. If the winds are kind, you'll make it to Pentos. Start a new life.
There won't be an Iron Fleet for much longer. Do it. If you don't, you'll never see Cersei again.
Swear to me.
If it works, give the order to ring all the bells in King's Landing and open the gates. That will be our signal that the city has surrendered.
I never thought I'd get to repay the favor. Remember, ring the bells and open the gates.
If Daenerys can make it to the throne without wading through a river of blood, maybe she'll show mercy to the person who made that possible.
Tens of thousands of innocent lives one not particularly innocent dwarf it seems like a fair trade. If it weren't for you, I never wouldo ve survived my childhood.
You were the only one who didn't treat me like a monster. You were all I had.
If you hear the bells ring, they've surrendered. Call off your men.
I'll find you later.
I'm going alone.
I freed my brother. And you slaughtered a city.
Did you bring any wine?
Ah... Well... thank you for coming to see me. Our queen doesn't keep prisoners for long. I suppose there's a crude kind of justice. I betrayed my closest friend and watched him burn. Now Varys's ashes can tell my ashes, "See, I told you." It just occurred to me. I'm talking to the only man alive who knows where I'm going.
So is there life after death?
I should be thankful. Oblivion is the best I could hope for. I strangled my lover. I shot my own father with a crossbow. I betrayed my queen.
I did. And I'd do it again, now that I've seen what I've seen. I chose my fate. The people of King's Landing did not.
Is it? When you heard her talking to her soldiers, did she sound like someone who's done fighting?
She liberated the people of Slaver's Bay. She liberated the people of King's Landing. And she'll go on liberating until the people of the world are free and she rules them all.
Until today. Varys was right. I was wrong. It was vanity to think I could guide her. Our queen's nature is fire and blood.
My father was an evil man. My sister was an evil woman. Pile up all the bodies of all the people they ever killed, there still won't be half as many as our beautiful queen slaughtered in a single day.
The moment the gates fell, the battle was over.
And she burned down a city for it.
Would you have done it?
You've been up there, on a dragon's back. You've had that power. Would you have burned the city down?
Yes, you do. You won't say because you don't want to betray her but you know.
It matters more than anything. When she murdered the slavers of Astapor, I'm sure no one but the slavers complained. After all, they were evil men.
When she crucified hundreds of Meereenese nobles, who could argue? They were evil men. The Dothraki khals she burned alive? They would have done worse to her. Everywhere she goes, evil men die and we cheer her for it. And she grows more powerful and more sure that she is good and right. She believes her destiny is to build a better world for everyone. If you believed that if you truly believed it, wouldn't you kill whoever stood between you and paradise?
I know you love her. I love her too. Not as successfully as you. But I believed in her with all my heart. Love is more powerful than reason. We all know that. Look at my brother.
You just came up with that?
Sometimes duty is the death of love. You are the shield that guards the realms of men. And you've always tried to do the right thing. No matter the cost, you've tried to protect people. Who is the greatest threat to the people now?
It's a terrible thing I'm asking. It's also the right thing. Do you think I'm the last man she'll execute? Who is more dangerous than the rightful heir to the Iron Throne?
And your sisters? Do you see them bending the knee?
Why do you think Sansa told me the truth about you? Because she doesn't want Dany to be queen.
No. But you do. And you have to choose now.
It's not for you to decide.
You're right. And no one's any better for it. But it's not for you to decide. Jon committed his crime here. His fate is for our king to decide. Or our queen.
You're the most powerful people in Westeros. Choose one.
Me? The Imp?
Half the people hate me for serving Daenerys, the other half hate me for betraying her.
Can't think of a worse choice.
I've had nothing to do but think these past few weeks. About our bloody history. About the mistakes we've made.
What unites people? Armies? Gold? Flags? Stories. There's nothing in the world more powerful than a good story. Nothing can stop it. No enemy can defeat it. And who has a better story than Bran the Broken? The boy who fell from a high tower and lived. He knew he'd never walk again, so he learned to fly. He crossed beyond the Wall, a crippled boy, and became the Three-Eyed Raven. He is our memory, the keeper of all our stories. The wars, weddings, births, massacres, famines. Our triumphs... mm, our defeats, our past. Who better to lead us into the future?
Good. Sons of kings can be cruel and stupid, as you well know. His will never torment us. That is the wheel our queen wanted to break.
From now on, rulers will not be born. They will be chosen on this spot by the lords and ladies of Westeros to serve the realm.
I know you don't want it. I know you don't care about power. But I ask you now, if we choose you will you wear the crown? Will you lead the Seven Kingdoms to the best of your abilities from this day until your last day?
To Brandon of House Stark... I say aye.
All hail Bran the Broken, First of His Name, King of the Andals and the First Men, Lord of the Six Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm.
N- No, Your Grace, I don't want it.
I don't deserve it. I thought I was wise, but I wasn't. I thought I knew what was right, but I didn't. Choose Ser Davos. Choose anyone else.
Giving you to the Unsullied would start a war. Letting you walk free would start a war. So our new king has chosen to send you to the Night's Watch.
The world will always need a home for bastards and broken men.
You shall take no wife, hold no lands, father no children. The Unsullied wanted your head of course, but Grey Worm has accepted the justice of a life sentence. Sansa and Arya wanted you freed, but they understand our new king needs to make peace. No one is very happy. Which means it's a good compromise, I suppose.
What we did.
Ask me again in ten years.
I wouldn't be so sure. A few years as Hand of the King would make anyone want to piss off the edge of the world.
That's not- Uh-
What's this?
I suppose I come in for some heavy criticism.
Oh, he's kind to me. Never wouldo ve guessed.
He's not kind?
He what? What does he say about me?
Your Grace.
Yes, Your Grace. Suitable prospects will be brought to you for an audience in the coming weeks.
As you wish, Your Grace.
We serve at your pleasure, King Bran the Broken, ruler of the Six Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm. Long may he reign.
That will improve.
Ser Bronn of the Blackwater, Lord of Highgarden, Lord Paramount of the Reach and Master of Coin, would you say the crown's debt to you has been paid?
Good. Time to start incurring a new one. We have hungry people to feed. Can we expect some assistance in this regard?
Lord Davos, we have an armada to rebuild and ports to repair.
Grandmaester, ahem, it is my theory, based on my years of work on the Casterly Rock sewers, that clean water leads to a healthier population.
Find the best builders and set them to the task.
I once brought a jackass and a honeycomb into a brothel.
