Hello, hello.
Hey, how are you?
Hello, there.
Chris Traeger.
This is Ben.
Ron Swanson.
Leslie Knope.
It is fantastic to be here.
There is quite literally nothing I would rather have in the world than a tour of the Parks and Recreation Department of the great City of Pawnee led by Ron Swanson and Leslie Knope.
Ben?
Let's do it!
People, we are here from the state budget office from Indianapolis.
Ooh.
What does that mean?
Look, simply we are here to tinker with your budget.
Think of the government as a broken down carousel.
We're going to slap on a new coat of paint, we are going to fix that broken speaker system, and we are going to get those happy kids back up on the horses where they belong!
Okay?
Okay?
There it is.
My partner, Ben, is going to stick around for a little bit, and I will see you all later.
Adios!
Leslie, Leslie.
Welcome, welcome, welcome.
Yeah.
Would you like a vitamin?
B12?
Evening primrose oil?
Willow bark?
Magnesium?
You sure?
Really good for hangovers.
I take care of my body above all else.
Diet, exercise, supplements, and positive thinking.
Scientists believe that the first human being who will live 150 years has already been born.
I believe I am that human being.
So what brings you here so early?
Great.
I'm gonna listen to some ocean sounds and do some chin-ups.
Oh, oh, oh.
Don't keep him too long.
I need someone to be here when I take my multivitamin.
There's a choking hazard.
You guys just knocked it completely out of the park.
And I appreciate it, and we will see you later.
Hey, Ann Perkins.
Hey, well--
April's party? April's party?
Hey.
Hey.
I've called you a cab.
Okay, let's get you in the cab.
Come on.
Fancy this.
Listen, I have meetings all day, but I'd love to chat with you.
Can I call you?
No, you couldn't remember your phone number, but you gave me your phone.
Okay.
Danger zone.
Come on, guys.
Wow, Leslie.
This is amazing.
But it's moot.
Our investigation has revealed that things in Pawnee are much worse than we anticipated.
You see this color? I don't like it. It's too depressing.
Leslie Knope. One second. I'd like some water.
I'd like it to be cold, I'd like it without ice, I'd like it in a glass or a mug with no handle.
How can I help you?
Well, sit down and tell me exactly what has happened.
It's terrible, and we need to fix it.
I'd love to hear it.
Ben?
There was a big concert.
Now, there's not.
Isn't there anything that we can do about that?
That's too bad.
Sorry, Leslie.
Damn!
I have to go run 10 miles.
I have run 10 miles a day every day for 18 years.
That's 65,000 miles.
A third of the way to the moon.
My goal is to run to the moon.
Ann Perkins.
Hi.
I was just doing my daily lunch time 10 miles and I ran by the hospital, and I thought I'd pop up and say hi.
No, I'm already at mile nine.
I know.
I have a resting heart rate of 28 beats per minute.
The scientist who studied me said that my heart could pump jet fuel up into an airplane.
I'd love to go out on a date with you.
I think you might find me attractive because you got drunk and kissed me when we first met.
And no pressure, but I do have tonight open.
No problem.
I will try again soon.
Ann Perkins.
Ron, that is a very creative idea.
But we don't want to sell any of our major assets, because we don't want to lose out on any future revenue streams.
I know what will loosen up our brains.
Massage train.
And I know what you're thinking.
It's not that I want a massage.
I'll be the caboose.
And Ron Swanson is the locomotive.
Okay, let's switch it up.
Ron, focus up, buddy.
Could someone else massage my shoulders?
Hey!
Hey!
Hey!
All right.
Everybody!
Everybody!
Hey.
Ann Perkins.
Hi.
Everyone.
You are all super amazing.
You are what makes Pawnee great, and I just want to tell you that I am totally supportive of your inspiring efforts here today!
Now, my partner Ben wants to say something.
Damn!
That's terrible news!
Surely, there has to be a solution, Ben.
Ben says no.
I'm sorry, everyone.
Good job.
You should hydrate.
Ann Perkins.
Chris Traeger.
Tom Haverford. Who's your friend?
You got it, Tom.
Scientists believe that the first human being who will live 150 years has already been born.
I believe I am that human being.
It is truly great to see all of you, huh?
It's great news!
Okay.
I have to run.
Ben.
Leslie Knope.
Ann Perkins.
How are my two favorite people in this entire town?
Yeah, I know, it's terrible.
Is there anything we can do about that?
Damn!
Ann, could I talk to you for a minute?
Can I ask you why not?
Because I thought we had a great time the night you got drunk and kissed me.
And you did use your tongue.
Okay.
Well, if you change your mind, you know where to find me, Ann Perkins.
Leslie Knope.
I am so excited that you finally agreed to go out with me.
What a magnificent flip-flop.
Tell me every single detail of your day.
I love dates.
I love connecting with someone.
I love engaging them.
I love being surprised by them.
I have never had a bad date.
They've all been either great or phenomenally great.
Nurses are the most undervalued members of our society by far.
I think all of you should make as much money as the CEO of Google.
Why am I so positive all the time?
I was born with a blood disorder.
And my parents were told that I had three weeks to live.
And here I still am, some 2,000 odd weeks later, and I have enjoyed every one of them.
We are on a date.
And it is going phenomenally.
Ben.
What a fun surprise.
Fantastic!
Hey.
You guys, let's all have dinner together.
The more the merrier.
Walking in parks can be very romantic.
Me, too.
I'm having a fantastic time.
What do you say we take this whole "date plus two other people" thing up into the stratosphere?
This place is outstanding!
Great call, Leslie Knope.
Look.
Even Ben's dancing.
Great, thanks.
I'm very flattered.
But this is my stunningly gorgeous date, Ann Perkins.
No problem.
In fact, let me buy all of you a drink for being so welcoming today.
Waiter!
Well, you know, I don't know if it's because I'm in such a good mood or because of the charming Ann Perkins, but I am going to seriously consider that.
Mission accomplished?
Wow.
I've just had my first bad date.
Ann Perkins.
Ann Perkins.
That, literally, is the most moving thing I've ever heard.
And a good idea.
Ann Perkins.
Ended with a five and a half minute mile.
My personal low.
I think the pavement in this town is soft.
Flu prevention.
My body is finely tuned, like a microchip, and the flu is like a grain of sand.
Speaking of potato chips, you and I are on for dinner tomorrow, yes?
Excellent.
Way to go, buddy.
Way to go.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my Is she Is she sick?
Are you sick?
I have to get out of here.
I have 2.8% body fat.
My body is like a microchip.
A grain of sand could destroy it.
My body's a microchip.
Hey, Ann.
My body has no fat to protect itself from disease.
Things happen very quickly.
Listen to me.
It's very important that you replenish my body with electrolytes after every involuntary loss of bodily fluids.
My body tends to lose a lot of fluids when it's sick.
My brain is on fire.
I'm dying.
Oh, my God.
The microchip has been compromised.
I had a dream that she came into this room, stole my flu medicine, told me not to tell you, and then disappeared through that hole in the wall.
I vomited somewhere in this room.
I don't remember where, though.
Wait.
You might want to check that drawer.
Stop pooping.
This floor is my friend.
What's up? I got a call from the boys upstairs.
And they have a new assignment for us.
Yeah.
And I feel like we should ask for an extension to stay here.
Good, so I'll make the call then, to get the extension?
For the loose ends.
Great.
No, no, I'm gonna go for a light 15k.
I missed yesterday.
Way to go, buddy.
Way to go.
That's so true.
Oh, thank you.
Ann Perkins!
Andy just gave me a phenomenal shoeshine and I did not know that you two once lived together.
Andy, that was an amazing shoeshine.
I can literally see my face in my shoes.
See you later!
It's fantastic.
No, no, no, no.
Those are sports sandals.
They are for adventure racing.
They perfectly contour to the human foot, and the human foot is the ultimate technology.
So you love April, and she has a new boyfriend, right?
No, you told me yesterday.
Andy, I want to help you win her over.
Why do I want to help him?
Because he's a good person.
I love good people.
The key to April's heart is within you, Andy.
You need to tap in to the aspects of your personality that she once found attractive to make yourself the best version of yourself.
What's great about you?
Good!
Nice.
What else?
Band!
What else?
Yeah, he's great.
And he told me how great you are.
And he told me that I would be crazy to let you get away.
He did.
And also, there is a pretzel stand over there that serves, literally, the best pretzel I've ever had.
Would you like one?
April?
I did call you.
Good ears.
I'd like you to get me some more Postits.
I'd like them in multiple colors.
I'd like green.
I'd like yellow.
Do not buy orange.
I do not want orange.
I have plenty of orange.
That's hilarious.
Oh, wait!
I have a Postit for you.
It says, "Great job!"
Great job.
There you go.
This is a disaster.
You're not into football?
I knew there was something wrong with you.
I knew it.
I knew it, knew it, knew it.
I would like a local beer.
I'd like it in a bottle.
I'd like the bottle to be cold.
Yeah, will do.
April, could you come in here a second?
April, way to come in.
Great initiative.
Listen, could you please call Ann Perkins and tell her that I will be unable to enjoy lunch with her today, as I am just swamped.
All day.
Ann Perkins.
April Ludgate.
Literally two of my favorite people on earth.
I'm sorry that I had to cancel lunch.
April.
Nice touch.
Ann and I are headed out and I just wanted to thank you for everything today, and I will see you tomorrow.
To whom it may concern, dear Chris, there is an emergency regarding the Parks Department, and April may just be the only person who can help.
I can't get into details because it's superclassified.
Please release April back to us permanently.
God bless America.
Love, Bert Macklin, FBI.
April, listen.
If you don't want to work for me, I'm not gonna force you.
You didn't have to do this.
Look, I get it.
You're young, and trying isn't cool.
But I think you're smart.
I'm gonna be going back to Indianapolis soon, and I think you should come work for me.
Everybody starts somewhere.
You'll travel, and you will meet interesting people.
Think about it.
This feels almost perfect, but I don't think your core has maximized elasticity.
No, no, no, no, no.
You're exactly the person that I most want to talk to, right at this moment.
And lunge.
Have you given my offer any more thought?
Well, you would work at the state house.
You would coordinate my professional and personal schedule, and we would give you a small relocation fee for your move to Indianapolis.
Yes.
That is literally the best news that I've heard all day.
Wow.
Who knew that watercress, garbanzo beans and walnuts could complement each other so well?
I'm just going to come right out and say it.
I want to define your bagua.
It's a feng shui term.
The energy in this house is a little stale.
But I think I can redefine your flow in a very positive way.
Great, let's do it.
You are going to love this. Verosian tea really supercharges the bacteria in your colon.
Plus, it smells interesting.
Waft it.
You are hilarious.
Back to Indianapolis briefly, and then, on to a town called Snerling, Indiana, for several months.
It's quite small.
The cows outnumber the people forty to one.
It sounds amazing.
And I thoroughly enjoy you, Ann Perkins.
No, no, no.
Please.
It is something that we need to figure out, and we should do that right now.
Yes, it's very hard to drink.
Welcome.
I am so glad you guys called.
This is gonna be great.
Come on in, come on in.
Exactly.
The entranceway to your house sends a message to the world about who you are.
And the front door provides energy flow and opportunity.
You cannot limit that.
Where do you live?
I like coats.
It's right behind you.
All right, let's go.
Why don't we go back to my place and I'll fire up the grill?
No.
What do you say, Ron?
Go back to my place, I'll make you some grub?
It'll be just as good as it would've been here.
Okay.
No, I don't, Leslie.
Do you have sisters?
No, she's home up in Wisconsin.
Is your mom visiting?
Nope.
You have aunts?
Nope.
I am so happy you guys are here.
I'm gonna go fire up the grill.
Ron, would you like some salad?
Try it.
Salad's good for you.
Well, I exercise, and I exercise my mind.
And I try to keep up on current events.
Sorry?
Oh, is that what's upsetting you?
This is very uncomfortable for me.
I don't know what to say.
Portobello mushrooms.
There's no steak.
That's a healthier option.
It's organically grown.
Ann Perkins, what are you doing here?
Excuse me?
I guess you're talking about my razor.
I shave my legs for swimming, and women's razors work better.
For whatever reason, men's razor technology hasn't figured out how to properly contour the shinbone.
Indiana Breast Cancer Awareness Triathlon, 2009.
Came in fourth!
I'm a human being.
Sometimes I get blemishes.
I'm not perfect.
No, I'm not cheating on you.
But I'm also not dating you.
We broke up last week.
We talked at your house.
Do you not remember this?
I'm sorry, Ann, but I'm certain we did.
Which you are.
As enjoyable as that was, I did find it odd.
I'm sure they're great people, but strange.
How's the best municipal department in Pawnee?
That's you guys.
Paul is going to be recuperating for a while.
So, the mayor asked me to step in as City Manager.
And I of course accepted immediately because Pawnee is literally the greatest town in the country.
Of course, I am gonna miss Indianapolis, which is the most wonderful city in America.
I'm so excited to be working with you all again.
And Leslie, I cannot wait to hear your new big idea.
I wanna hit the ground running, and your new mystery project is going to be the hydration pack that gets me to the finish line.
You're all my little hydration packs.
Ron.
Are, too.
Hydration pack!
Ann Perkins.
Yeah.
Well, it looks great.
It's So good running into you.
You know, we should get together soon.
I'd love to catch up.
I just was-- Oh!
So delightful.
I relish your wit.
Hey, guys.
I was just out for my night time run, and I thought, "Why not go visit the Parks Department?" How's everything going here?
Tell me now while I sit on this boulder.
I'm much more receptive to new ideas when my heart rate is still elevated.
Oh! Sure.
You know, I've never moved this slowly before.
It's almost like being in quicksand.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
I mean, I never meant to hurt you.
And well, I'm back now.
Hey, I have a great idea.
Why don't we go to this rustic diner that I know? We can have egg white omelets and we can continue to talk about us.
You have to understand that at the time, I genuinely thought that you and I would never see each other again.
Well, that's what makes you so amazing.
Ann Perkins, amazing.
Oh no.
I wasn't saying that I thought we should get back together again.
Where's Leslie?
I like it.
Hey, gang.
I was in charge of the cake.
To be fair, it's not a cake so much as it is a vegetable loaf.
You got your mushrooms, your alfalfa sprouts, your spinach, and I had it sweetened with fruit reduction.
Nothing else in my entire life would make me happier as long as I live.
Exactly.
Mortality.
See, I like to take each day at a time.
There's nothing in the world we can't accomplish if we try.
It's been great talking to you.
Pawnee is, as you all know, the fourth most obese city in America.
No, we are not.
We are slimming down.
Starting right here at City Hall.
I am implementing a government-wide health initiative.
Great idea!
Keep 'em coming.
Now, if anybody would like to join me, I will be running backwards up the big hill behind the Walmart.
Oh, hey, Ron.
Oh, no, those hamburgers are gone.
Red meat can cause sluggishness, heart disease, even impotence.
You ever tried a turkey burger?
A turkey burger.
You take lean, ground turkey meat, you make that into a burger instead of red meat.
What if I told you that I could make a turkey burger that tastes better than any other burger you've ever had?
What do I get if I win?
I like that.
We're on.
Ron Swanson.
April Ludgate.
Hey, I'm just gonna pop over to Grain 'N Simple to get the very best ingredients for my burger.
Do you wanna come?
It's a health food store.
No, but Snerling does.
And it's only a 40 minute drive.
Ah, Nirvana.
Hey, guys.
Amber.
Annie.
Bill.
Johnny.
Dragon fruit.
A kiwano, or horned melon.
A peach.
Wow!
Fresh lettuce is my all-time favorite food.
What's your favorite food?
Skittle sandwich?
I think if you continue crosstraining the way you have, you're gonna I don't see any ingredients.
Have you bought ingredients?
Do you need help shopping?
Are you hurt?
Can you move?
I said one thing.
Leslie.
Tom.
I have a very strict policy.
No office relationships, particularly between a supervisor and an employee.
The taxpayers pay us.
So, we can't have anything appearing even remotely scandalous.
I'm just saying, if you can't keep your mouth to yourself, I'm gonna have to suspend you.
Look.
Cucumber flower.
Wait, that's a garnish.
You're not supposed to eat that.
I humbly place before you my east meets west patented Traeger Turkey Burger, an Asian fusion burger made with Willow Farms organic turkey, a toasted taleggio cheese crisp, papaya chutney, black truffle aioli, and microgreens on a gluten free brioche bun.
Enjoy.
Wow! Somebody's got a sharp palate.
Ron, I am so disappointed.
I thought that you and I were gonna have a real challenge.
Well, I don't understand.
I've tinkered with this recipe for years.
Granted, it's been a long time since I've had a hamburger.
This is better.
The commissary will continue to serve horrifying, artery-clogging hamburgers.
I just wanted to make sure that there were no hard feelings after I forced you to break up with Tom.
'Cause it's just a real bugaboo of mine.
And it applies to everyone.
Just the other day, Ben told me that he might want to socialize with somebody from the government and I said, "I'm sorry. Not possible."
No, and I didn't ask.
Because it's irrelevant.
He oversees every department.
It simply can't happen.
This is literally the best thing I've ever eaten.
Mmm.
And it's so bad for me.
I'm gonna have to jog while I digest this.
Excuse me.
Leslie Knope!
Ben Wyatt.
Ben, great news.
Do you remember the woman I told you about from the county commissioner's office?
Sure you do.
Cindy Miller.
Anyway, she's agreed to go out on a date with you.
You're going to love her.
She is interesting, smart and beautiful.
Inside and out.
Inner beauty is very important.
And outer beauty is also very important.
Don't worry.
Her department is completely separate from ours.
This isn't anything like your affair with Tom Haverford.
Cindy Miller.
Chris Traeger.
Guess who is standing in this room with me right now.
Oh, uh Ben Wyatt.
Ben, say hello.
Ooh!
Sparks are flying!
We may have to call the fire department.
It's a government joke.
I love setting people up.
Here's my secret.
I determine someone's best qualities, and then, I find someone else with compatible qualities, and I bring them together.
Ms. Langman, we hear you, we understand you and we are going to do whatever we can to come to a solution.
Not personally, no.
No, personally, I enjoy a good artistic depiction of the human form.
I've dabbled in nude sculpture.
I've posed nude.
In college, I was in a nude production of Cats.
But I am not in the nude now, am I?
Because we're in a government building.
And that would be inappropriate, which is what I think Marcia is saying.
So, take care of this situation.
Imagine my horror.
I'm hanging upside down with my gravity boots watching Perd.
I see you with your painting, and I am startled and disappointed.
I urge you not to take that role.
That's good to hear, because recently, you've been a little unpredictable.
You've left me no choice.
I have convened a meeting of the Public Arts Commission, and we will abide by their decision.
I would just like to introduce myself.
My name is Chris Traeger, and I am a big fan of art.
Leslie Knope, you need to bring that painting back.
Leslie, you have the painting, and you need to bring it back in.
I think I've been pretty fair with you, and I'm beginning to feel angry.
and I don't like feeling angry, my heart is racing, it's going at literally 45 beats per minute.
You will bring that painting in tomorrow morning, and surrender it to Marcia Langman, and that's that.
Do you understand me madam?
I am so glad that this got resolved, because I hate being angry.
Ben.
Come in here.
How did your date with Cindy go?
Well she was a tall brunette.
You always like tall brunettes.
Historically yes, exclusively.
Okay, well, I'm going to keep trying, because you are incredible.
and you deserve someone amazing and smart and beautiful.
Exactly.
Hey, what about Shelly from the health food store.
Her brother died climbing Everest.
Interesting right.
You want me to do what, now?
I don't understand.
Is Leslie's work unsatisfactory?
Ron, look, this is me, okay? You know you can talk to me about anything.
Hey! Happy Birthday.
We need to find a new PR Director for the Health Department.
Dennis Cooper was fired today.
Short answer, he went bananas.
Long answer, his wife, Jan, had an affair, gave him a venereal disease, and so he put signs about her all through City Hall.
I'm sure you've seen them.
Jan Cooper will give you Chlamydia.
"Brought to you by the Pawnee Health Department.
Chlamydia affects nearly 100% of Jan Coopers.
The Department of Health congratulates Jan Cooper.
Miss Chlamydia.
Jan, I love you.
Please come back.
I realize that I'm not blameless here.
Please.
Brought to you by the Health Department.
Reelect Jan Cooper.
Mayor of Whoreville.
Leslie, I want you to help us choose a replacement.
Parks and Health work closely together on outdoor programs and exercise initiatives.
Ann Perkins?
Yeah, I got your email.
We need to talk.
I believe an ounce of that would literally kill me.
You emailed everyone at City Hall and told them to come to a club that you own to buy alcohol that you invented.
Government employees can't use their power to enhance their personal wealth.
I just don't see any way around it.
You're gonna have to sell your shares in the Snakehole.
Yes.
Every time I cleanse, I can literally feel the toxins leaving my body.
Prebroth is an amazing stage.
It's when you're most alert.
I'm sorry.
Rules are rules.
I wish there was something we could do.
Ben, is there something we can do? Damn it.
Ben's not here.
I'm sorry.
My hands are tied.
Great.
I am sending you two on a trip.
The Indiana Little League Baseball Tournament is upon us, and Pawnee hasn't hosted it in 20 years.
So, I would like you two to go to Indianapolis and state our case, because you two are my dynamic duo.
Right here.
Ah Ah And go team!
Leslie!
When Ben told me that you had won the bid, I was wildly ecstatic, and I had to come up here and celebrate with you.
There is literally nothing in this world that you cannot do.
So, what's the plan now?
Should we take a long walk?
Minigolf.
Nonsense.
There's no reason to drive all the way back home.
I've got a perfectly good condo right here in the city.
Double nonsense.
I would love to have you stay with me.
Leslie, you can take the guest room, and, Ben, you have to sleep on my couch.
It is literally the comfiest couch you've ever been on.
Sorry, I keep myself very well hydrated, and my bladder is the size of a thimble.
I urinate roughly 12 times a night.
Well, that was quick and to the point.
Here's a tip.
The key to a healthy urethra, radishes.
Good night.
Well, now I'm up.
You wanna Boggle?
O-M-G.
Leslie, I read that same article.
The History of the Ladder.
It's utterly fascinating.
Ben, you're gonna love this.
Really? Do you know that the original image of a ladder is in a cave in Valencia, Spain, drawn over 10,000 years ago.
This is amazing.
What is this?
I feel that some structural changes could really unlock this department's potential.
Jerry.
I believe you are capable of much more.
Nonsense.
Look in the mirror.
You are an intelligent, charismatic, beautiful superhero.
I'm making you head of Public Relations, which means you'll be leading the daily briefing sessions.
April, you are too valuable to just be Ron's assistant.
So from now on, you are a multitasking executive aide, assisting the entire office.
Tom, I just wanna say that you are a wonderful employee and a terrific human being.
Tom.
I enjoy you.
You know what else I enjoy?
Your entrepreneurial spirit.
That's terrific.
I have an amazing project for someone of your talents.
You are going to digitize the entire city archives up on the fourth floor.
You won't be alone.
Andy.
Starting now, you are nobody's shoeshine boy.
Starting now, you are an administrative assistant.
For three weeks.
Then back to shoes.
This, Mr. Director, is your new desk.
This desk is the epitome of the Swedish concept of jamstalldhet, or "equality."
Imagine someone needs your attention.
Somebody say my name.
Swivel!
What is it, Jerry?
And you did a great job, superstar.
Someone else say something.
Swivel!
April, that is not a very good attitude.
I will keep my eye on you from my circular desk where I can see everything.
Tiny swivel.
See how it works?
That becomes a new public waiting room.
And we got rid of that giant pillar that was in front of your door.
Well, get over it, because it's gone.
You're gonna be more accessible than ever.
Hey, hey, hey, don't say that.
Now, come on.
Get yourself together and go out there and be the woman you always knew you could be.
I don't know.
I saw her crying, and so I helped.
What did you wanna talk to me about?
Tom, I have made you a project leader.
This is a big deal!
You should keep an open mind.
Let your brain unlock the door to your heart's future.
I made that expression up when I was 14.
Still in use today.
By me.
Gotta jam.
Ron Swanson.
Now, wait a minute.
Give them time.
They'll adjust.
Well, that's very perceptive, Ron.
And, very graphic.
I understand your point, but there's no way that I can just roll over on this.
How is that good news?
Really?
Men of my age?
How old do you think I am?
I am 44, and I plan to live to be 150.
So.
What's the cure?
Dr. Harris, you are literally the meanest person I have ever met.
Oh, hi, Ann Perkins.
I'm dying.
Tendonitis.
You're right, you're right.
So.
What's up with you?
Li'I Sebastian died?
That's terrible.
Could you get it?
Oh, my God.
Death is inescapable.
Goodbye, Ann Perkins.
Ann, so glad I found you.
Can I talk to you for a minute.
I need to ask you a question, and if you're uncomfortable answering it right now, you can take some time and think about it.
That would be okay.
Is tendonitis symptomatic of something larger?
I'm just very worried, I'm not sure this doctor's been properly trained.
Of course, I'm sorry.
I do hope we can be friends before I die.
I did do 10,000 pushups last week.
For a 44 year old.
You're right.
I've been overreacting.
I don't like thinking about death.
Death is the opposite of
Exactly.
Look at us.
Talking like friends.
Ann Perkins.
What's the point in doing 10,000 pushups if you're gonna do them alone?
I'd much rather do 5,000 pushups with a wonderful woman.
Sitting on my back to increase my resistance.
Excuse me.
It is exactly because of that lewd photo that I am here.
Ben and I are launching a full investigation.
And I want to apologize to all the women And Jerry.
If I could go back in time, and cut your eyeballs out, I would.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mayor, I promise you that we will find the owner of that weiner and we will punish him.
Goodbye.
Ann Perkins!
I've always felt the same way myself.
The testicles are like the ears of the genital system.
They serve a very important function, but they're not that great to look at.
Ann Perkins!
You really know your testes.
No.
It's because you broke the law.
Before we have him forcibly removed, you should know this, that one of our female employees, a nurse, examined the photo you sent her
And you have the mumps.
You might wanna get that checked.
Ann Perkins!
I did!
I was so proud of you.
Oh, my God.
Your inbox is literally filled with penises.
I am so sorry.
And so effective immediately, all male employees must stop sending explicit photos to Ms. Perkins.
That would be harassment.
Who is that guy?
That is sad, but also, in this town, understandable.
Ann Perkins.
I am flattered.
And I will do it.
Is there a script yet?
I would like you to write me a script and get it to me in an hour.
And we should start thinking about wardrobe.
Casual?
Formal?
Semiformal?
Sporty?
Scary?
Posh?
Baby?
Those are the spice girls.
I just got caught up in my own thoughts.
I'm very excited about this.
In terms of shirts, I can wear white
Diabetes can't be cured.
But it can be prevented.
Make a choice.
Make a change.
And together, we can make a difference.
What do you think?
Any notes?
In that last one, I left a nanosecond of a pause between the words, "together" and "we."
It felt much better.
But I'd love to try another one.
Ann.
This is important to me because it's important to you.
I mean, you spent a lot of time and energy on writing this.
So, it needs to be perfect.
So, let's do 1 more, then 5 more, then 20 in a row.
Diabetes!
Fight it!
Not quite, but I like the energy are we still rolling?
Diabetes!
I think that's a great idea.
I think we almost have it, and I am very excited at that prospect.
I'll cancel my four o'clock and my five o'clock and my six o'clock appointments.
Fat equals splat!
As in, "you're dead!"
Is there something there?
No no.
That that sucked.
But there's something there.
I'm feeling it let's go right away!
It's magic time!
From the top, everybody.
Ann Perkins, I hate to say this, but I have a stain on my shirt.
Which means that everything we shot so far is unusable, but let's use this as an opportunity to revisit the script.
Delivery guy.
Diabetes!
And together, we can make a difference.
That's it.
I think we got it.
Do you think we got it?
Oh, Ann, I I know that I can be intense, but I'm only trying to be the best me that I can be.
I want to thank you for this opportunity and your patience, and your intelligence, and your insight.
You really are an amazing human being.
Leslie, I loved your book.
I read it cover to cover.
I'm a speed reader.
I can read over 3,000 words a minute with total comprehension.
One time, I read all of Siddhartha at a traffic stop.
I never do.
Chris Traeger.
I found no inaccuracies.
That was despicable!
I am horrified at her tactics.
That said, the show was pretty lively.
Joan gotcha!
It's very catchy.
Well Leslie?
Let me handle this.
Does it really matter?
I mean, how many of you were actually born in Pawnee?
Sure enough.
Thank you. Goodbye everbody.
Hi, I'm Chris.
I was wondering if you might make an exception for me?
Wow.
That usually works.
I believed in you, buddy.
But you should put that back.
I'm sorry, but I disagree.
Leslie, where you were born is a piece of trivia.
Where you're from That's what makes you who you are.
And you are from Pawnee.
You're more Pawnee than anyone I know.
So I say, tell them the truth, and trust that they're gonna respect you for it.
Thanks, Ron.
Jerry.
Oh, everybody must be at Rangers weekend.
That's wonderful.
Maybe you should take the day off.
You know, rest is very important.
Did you know that lab rats who are deprived of rest grow tumors all over their bodies?
You should Google it.
It's horrifying.
I would love to, Jerry, but I'm afraid that I am busy.
I have got to run.
Google those rat tumors!
Wow.
Jerry, great job.
I'm your dad's boss.
And his much younger friend.
I retroactively accept your original offer.
Let's go!
There is nothing that I like more than running for charity.
Millicent Gergich, biking for charity is literally one of my interests on Facebook.
I can't believe how alike we are.
We are having a moment.
Jerry, a word?
I had an amazing lunch.
I've already passed the kale salad I had.
But, even better?
Your daughter was delightful company.
Now, I don't want to put you in an awkward position, but
Yes!
But you are her father.
And that is a sacred thing.
I would like to spend the next 2 to 4 days with you so you can get to know me better, to find out if I'm the kind of person who's good enough for your daughter.
Then, you can come with us on our first 3 to 6 dates
Jerry.
Thank you.
Jerry.
Listen, as I said earlier, I want keep everything above board in regards to my relationship with your daughter.
And, as you know, Millicent and I went out last night.
And it went terrific.
Again, the date was amazing, we had sparkling conversation, and, full disclosure, she did spend the night at my house.
Have a great day, Jerry.
Donna?
Blue shirt Badge Nightstick.
You are a policewoman.
Sherlock Holmes.
I solved that mystery before you did.
Andy!
You are UFC legend Chuck Liddell.
Girl from The Ring.
To me, Sherlock Holmes is literally the greatest character in the Western canon.
Smart, intuitive, handsome.
Replace his pasty British frailty with superhuman physical fitness, and you get Sherlock Traeger.
Mister Potato head.
She's at home.
I knew that you would be here.
And I was worried that you might be concerned, seeing us together at night.
You're beautiful.
On the inside where your spirit lives.
Oh, good, I'll text her.
I think it's rude not to maintain eye contact with people that I'm talking to.
That's from me.
High five.
I had an amazing time at that party.
And in the case of the woman who's stolen my heart, the culprit was Millicent Gergich.
I will.
And, Jerry, I've decided to take your daughter home.
And we may be having intercourse.
You've got it, man.
I can't find my car keys.
Why does the cult call themselves "The Reasonableists"?
That was a tragic day.
Live strong.
In any rate, I think Ben and I should accompany you tonight.
No, no, no, I insist.
These people live on planet nutbrain.
I live on planet nut bran.
Bran and nuts are very helpful for your colon!
Oh, not at all, Shauna MalwaeTweep.
It's been over 30 years since there's been any incident involving the Reasonableists.
So you were living here when Reasonableism first swept in?
That is interesting.
You know, can I have a look at that?
Herb, I just speedread both of your books.
And, full disclosure, I think they're bonkersfilled.
But I did notice that you're interested in reincarnation.
Tell me about that.
What a lovely thought.
That was very strange what you just said.
I don't like it as much as that other thing you said.
Buddhists feel that human beings are unlikely to be reincarnated as human beings.
So the problem with reincarnation is that you could be reborn as a pretzel.
Or a socket wrench.
Ron, if you could be reincarnated, what would you like to be?
Ann Perkins that was beautiful.
Let's go to that party that Tom's having.
Have some fun in this life.
Ann Perkins, you zinged me. I love that.
Ann Perkins.
Not good.
Can I talk to you?
I'm not sure if you're aware, but I am romantically involved with Jerry Gergich's surprisingly hot daughter Millicent Gergich.
That's correct.
Anyway, we've been on four dates, but now Millicent Gergich hasn't returned my last two phone calls.
I think the relationship may be in trouble, and I don't know why.
The root of sarcasm is truth, Ann.
I am going to launch a fullscale investigation.
And I sincerely thank you for that suggestion.
Sarcasm again!
You're a delight.
Jerry!
I am launching a fullscale investigation into my romantic relationship with your daughter Millicent Gergich, and I thought I could pick your brain.
Quick recap things were going wonderfully.
We clicked on an emotional level.
And then suddenly, I just stopped hearing from her.
Now, you must know her pretty well what gives?
Donna!
Yeah!
Get in on this.
Thank you, Donna!
See, I just don't believe in this whole don't let people know how you feel nonsense.
I love telling people how I feel.
Mostly because I love most people.
And I love telling them that I love them.
No.
I'm not crazy.
Ann Perkins.
I took your advice.
Precisely.
And we're getting to the bottom of what's going on with me and Jerry's daughter, and I thought you would be a tremendous addition to this think tank.
Okay.
We need to stop dealing in hypotheticals.
Ann, we dated.
What happened to us?
Sure.
Sounds like fun.
But I did eat food off of your body.
So you're saying that I intimidated you?
Jogging's amazing!
Well, I'm sorry that I added five years to your life.
Now I'm being sarcastic.
Like you.
I'm doing something that you like.
Well, I'm glad.
Thank you.
Tom!
I would like you to redesign our Parks department logo.
Rethink our visual brand, take these words, and make something amazing.
Yes, essentially I'd like you to choose a new font. Jerry, I am making you my number two guy on the new font project.
Fair enough.
Jerry, you're number three.
He has been in this department a long time.
I think maybe you could learn somethg from him.
Now how big is the park, exactly?
Has there been any resistance from the community?
You two, when you work on a project together, are simply amazing.
Great job team.
Where did all these people come from?
And why did they turn so quickly on this project?
Dream team.
Dream team!
Wow.
That was very hard to hear.
So many negative words.
I just need to process this.
Okay, the dream team is dead.
But you guys had a great run.
Good job with that.
This is amazing.
It is possibly the best idea anyone has had in this government in 100 years.
Tom, terrific.
I am, of course, shocked And not just because Ben usually prefers tall brunettes.
Neither of those things.
I love both of you.
You are exemplary government employees.
Well, it's true.
Which makes what I'm about to say even sadder.
I'm launching a full investigation into the extent of your wrongdoing.
Please report Monday first thing to the council chambers for your ethics trial and subsequent punishment.
Leslie Knope!
Good morning!
It is snowing outside.
Isn't that great?
Actually, I'm quite miserable.
I admire and respect you, and dragging you through an ethics trial is filling me with sadness.
I have never felt so low.
I went to my herbalist and got two B12 shots.
And then I ate an unreasonable amount of St. John's wort, and my herbalist took this weird bee pollen paste rubbed it around my gums.
And now my mouth feels like a spaceship.
This is stressful.
And stress leads to depression.
And if I don't mantain an extremely high dosages of herbal remedies, I will get very depressed.
Oh, God.
It's happening right now.
Ms. Knope, on what day did your relationship with Ben Wyatt begin?
Next question did you ever receive special treatment as a result of your relationship with Ben Wyatt?
And did you break any local, state, or federal law in an effort to cover up your relationship with Ben Wyatt?
Thank you.
Ms. Knope, that is all.
Uh, yes, sir.
It's not my rule, Leslie.
It is an important rule that exists in every government.
Romantic relationships between superiors and their employees lead to fraud, corruption, and misuse of public funds.
I think that you began your relationship with Ben Wyatt earlier than you're saying.
I believe that you certainly received special treatment, and I think that you may even be guilty of bribery.
Mr. Haverford, would you consider Leslie Knope a good employee?
I do not know, but I'll assume that that is a yes.
How long were you two lovers?
Last march, I witnessed Leslie Knope and Tom Haverford engaged in a passionate yet tender kiss.
It seems that Ms.
Knope has a pattern of becoming involved with her coworkers.
What laptop?
I have here a receipt from Pawnee Supersuites Motel.
Leslie Knope submitted that receipt for reimbursement.
Taxpayers' money is not meant to be spent on a romantic getaway.
Good nose, Ron.
Tammy Swanson is here.
She'll be my next witness.
Ms. Swanson, do you, as you claimed, have evidence linking Leslie Knope and Ben Wyatt to law breaking?
May I remind you that you are under oath, and if you lie, I will fire you and have you prosecuted.
And I am very happy that I have not uncovered any additional evidence of unethical behavior.
But II do have one last witness George Williams from Public Works.
You're saying that you saw Ben Wyatt and Leslie Knope kissing at Li'l Sebastian's memorial?
Can you identify Leslie Knope in this chamber?
And what happened after this incident?
And did you use it?
That's enough.
Now, in order to cover up their illicit affair, Ben Wyatt and Leslie Knope bribed a city employee.
Ben asked for a private meeting with the committee, and he took full responsibility for the bribe and resigned, effective immediately.
I tried to talk him out of it, but His mind was made up.
Look, my job is to protect the government from fraud and corruption.
I was just doing my job.
I hope that you can understand that.
'Cause your actions wounded me to my core, which is not easy since the bulk of my workouts are focused on core strengthening.
But we will get through this.
You are An excellent government employee.
And more importantly, you're the only person I've ever met who's worthy of being Ben's girlfriend.
You know, the meeting that Ben and I had
it's on the record.
You should take a look at the last page of the transcript.
This is how I fight depression.
Okay, fine.
I'll stop.
Okay, so you are prepared to resign, effective immediately, and take full responsibility for all the events that transpired at Li'l Sebastian's memorial.
Was all of this, all the sneaking around, the scandal, losing your job, Was it worth it?
Neither can I.
Jerry, you can go.
We need a five-minute break.
Leslie Knope!
It is!
It's an experimental fabric called bumbleflex.
It's made out of synthetic bees' wings.
Anyway You're not supposed to be here.
You're suspended.
N O.
You are specifically prohibited from doing your job.
Leslie.
Go home and give me the flash drive.
This is a nasal spray.
Give me the flash drive.
Okay, good.
Now, in two weeks, you can Leslie Knope!
I am much faster than you!
I have bumbleflex!
Hi, Leslie.
You're not supposed to be here.
Those are the people that have been harassing me.
Well
Leslie, out of respect for you, I will meet with your group, but I hope that this puts an end to the madness.
Ahh!
That is so thoughtful!
Ron filled me in on everything that happened, and I really wish that the ethics investigation hadn't interfered with your campaign in any way.
Oh, that's nice of you to say.
Anyway, now, for your Christmas present.
Your suspension's been lifted.
Please, come back to work.
Ben
I already did.
So, uh, how you been?
How are you doing?
How are you?
No, I find calzone fatty, and unnecessary.
So, you've hit a bit of a rough patch, and I care about you, so I just want to make sure you're doing okay.
It is so cool!
Ben is massively depressed, and he needs my help.
So, Ben
Why Calzone?
What about pizza?
Never thought of it that way.
Amazing.
Gamechanger.
That idea is literally the greatest idea I've ever heard in my life.
That idea is terrible.
Hey, man, you want to go for a jog?
Just, sort of, kick out the cobwebs, get some endorphins going?
You know, Ben, I really think you need to take a step back here.
I think getting some perspective would be good.
I've known you a long time.
And, right now, you need help.
With your life.
You are wildly, insanely depressed.
I'm sorry, but the Ben Wyatt that I know, I just don't think he'd be happy sitting here faffing around.
Oh, how great.
Did you pause it?
You're gonna be okay.
Okay, look, what you're feeling, right now is regret and shame.
But we are going to get through this.
Here you go.
Drink up, because it has every herb in my herb belt.
I know, isn't it awful? But it works wonderfully.
So, tell me.
Do you admit that you're depressed?
The Letters to Cleo t-shirt, the unshaven face, the Doc Martins, and your hair does not have that normal, uptight, rigid, inflexible Ben Wyatt sense of fun.
You can't hide these things from friends.
Herbal smoothie, you have done it again.
You know, Leslie, Ben's really been going through something, and he's on a journey, so I don't think he's gonna be
Okay, great.
Ron Swanson.
How are you?
I have a meeting at public works, and I was thinking that maybe you might wanna sit in.
They are working on a number of fascinating, big budget projects
That I am being forced to brutally cut entirely.
Wonderful.
As you know, I'm not a big fan of delivering bad news.
Thank you, John, for coming in.
The public works department is wonderful, and you are the best idea man in the business.
We're very sorry.
Ron Swanson!
I want to thank you for being so ruthless and cruel in the meeting the other day.
With the public works department about the dam.
What do you say I take you to lunch and then we can talk about all the projects that you want to get accomplished.
What a pill.
We should order.
And then we can talk shop.
What are you gonna have?
I'm thinking something raw and cucumber based.
A cucumber.
Ron Swanson!
Just the man I wanted to see.
I'm going to be going to a seminar on the art of the japanese tea ceremony Or chakai the Pawnee community college, and I thought you might like to come with me.
I know how much you value silence.
All right, well, if you change your mind, you know where to find me.
Donna Meagle!
Ron Swanson!
What a pleasant surprise.
And who's this?
The tea ceremony.
You're a brother japanophile?
Arigato.
Ron, a moment.
All right, pal, level with me.
What's going on?
No, no, no, no.
I'm not lonely.
I have me.
And 4,000 Facebook friends and a hot girlfriend.
I wanted to spend time with you, because I have to replace Ben as assistant city manager and I was giving you a tryout of sorts.
Now, I'll mull my options for the next few months, but I'd love you to keep an open mind.
Kyle-San! Arigato!
Hey!
Let's get this phone party started.
Sorry I'm late, guys.
No one's thinking that.
I was not.
oh, my God.
I could use that for a romantic night with Millicent Gergich.
Out of my way, suckers.
As city manager, I play no favorites.
But as a private citizen, I am free to support whomever I choose, and I choose to support team Knope because they're the best.
Everybody's the best.
We're all winners.
Hello, I'm calling on behalf of Leslie Knope, who is running for city council.
Is this Deirdre Splatterfork?
That is literally the most beautiful name I have ever heard.
Ha ha!
100 dollars.
This is unbelievable.
I cannot be stopped.
" Put the phone down, take a deep breath, and then you are going to tell Steven that you will be treated with respect, okay?
And thank you for your donation.
I am taking a probiotic tea break.
And while that is happening, I thought I might share some big news.
I am going to ask Millicent Gergich to move in with me.
I I mean, if that's okay with you of course, Jerry.
That is an amazing offer.
But I think we're probably gonna get our own place.
I'm already working with a Real Estate agent to find an octagonal house.
I've done some reading, and an octagon is the optimal shape for a home in terms of energy flow.
Jerry, I love it when you pull rank.
Hey.
Just one second.
Let me get off this call.
Hi, I'm so sorry.
I'm back.
So Millicent and I are going to take a nice little stroll, and I'll be back soon.
Well, I don't think that will be necessary.
Unless you also want to go get dinner.
Thanks, Donna, but Millicent's company will keep me warm.
April Ludgate.
How are you doing?
Well, as you may know, Millicent Gergich ended our relationship last night, which was disappointing.
But here's why it may be the greatest thing that ever happened.
Oh, no, no, no.
you earned them.
There are three of them.
I thought there were only two.
Thank you.
Millicent Gergich has literally torn my heart from my body and replaced it with a thick slab of sadness.
I may never smile again.
Tom, this is a publicly funded couples dance.
I don't think it's appropriate for people to be getting "wet with sound."
I will.
I certainly have no other plans for Valentine's Day, because I am completely alone.
Happy Valentine's Day, Pawnee.
For me, it is not happy.
But don't let my sadness diminish your night.
Anyway, life is fleeting.
It is.
Nobody here compares to Millicent.
Except maybe Jerry.
Technically they share 50% of the same DNA.
Sure.
On the contrary, she was faster than I was.
I set many personal bests just trying to keep up with her.
Which is what I'm worried about.
What if she was my personal best?
I am 44 years old.
Most people say 25.
Lot of people.
You don't think that Millicent was my soul mate?
Thanks, I'll try.
Tom, am I to understand correctly that you are now romantically involved with Ann Perkins?
No.
But she is, and you should.
I just had no idea, and so now I have to Adjust.
Okay.
Take me out to the ball game take me out to the game I just want to be at the game
I would like to eat at the game I'd like popcorn and candy and the home team at the game!
Not in the slightest.
As the Germans would say, "er ist ein wunder hund.
" He is a wonder dog.
The dog training course I took was conducted entirely in German, and so now I'm fluent in German Words relating to dogs.
April and Andy went away for the night, and I looked after Champion here.
He's a mutt.
Half amazing, half terrific.
Ich bin ein three legged dog.
Well, I took him to PetSmart.
I got him various toys, got him shots, got him groomed, and gave him plenty of exercise.
He's healthier than ever.
Andy, if I may
Dogs tend to take on the personalities of their owners
So if you were to sit on your couch all day watching cartoons and eating nothing but Cheetos, that's what he would want to do too.
Bye, Champion.
Hey, boy.
How was the ride?
Oh, hey, you want me to show you something?
Platz.
Steh Auf.
See, it's pretty cool, huh?
Would you like me to teach you?
She's the Chancellor of Germany.
Andy.
I think that Champion should stay on his leash.
There's unfamiliar terrain and strange smells.
That's not true.
Champion!
Champion, come here, boy.
I have an organic, gluten free soy bone for you.
Really?
Andy, if it wasn't for you and April, Champion would still be back at the pound.
You gave him a home.
That's amazing.
And he's your dog.
If you just call out his name, he will come to you.
I think he likes your music.
Why don't you sing to him?
Come on
Dog whistle.
I'll go.
Jerry has a wife and three beautiful daughters, a full life, and that's amazing.
April and Andy have Champion, and that's amazing.
I have a stepbrother who lives in London and 2.8% body fat.
Andy, he's kissing me.
Upsidedown situps.
Great exercise, and it literally lets me see the world from a different perspective.
The world's my gymnasium, Ron.
But I will stop if it makes you uncomfortable.
Could you hold me while I dismount?
Thanks so much.
Question for you.
In a town of this size, the Parks department traditionally has ten employees.
You have only seven.
Why is that?
The department is so small because Leslie Knope singlehandedly does the work of four people.
And she's already scaled back her time.
If she wins, she'll be dividing her time between Parks and City Council.
I'm going to have to hire a deputy director to pick up the slack.
Then prove it.
Complete one major project.
I've started meeting with people to fill in for Leslie.
I have found five candidates I'd like to hire and two I'd like to be lifelong friends with.
Excuse me.
Excuse me, everybody.
I think you'll agree that this department could use a little leadership.
Hi, guys.
What's so imporant?
Water balloon fight.
Simple, elegant, and costeffective.
If your team keeps this up, I think we can hold off on filling the Leslie void.
I'll give it up for that.
Chris Traeger.
Excellent.
I have been a fan of April since day one.
I told
April Ludgate.
I'm not.
I'm surrounded by friends Friends I don't know yet.
And I'm engrossed in this book.
It's the true story of a woman born with no arms and no legs who attempted to swim the English Channel.
Oh, she drowned immediately.
It's kind of a sad story.
Thank you.
Bye, friend.
Professor Linda?
It is a genuine pleasure to meet you.
Oh!
Linda, in case you're interested, I brought my own dressing.
Well, this is the last time.
I promise.
It contains extra virgin olive oil, a little bit of lemon, and hint of turmeric.
I was gonna say the exact same thing.
But I didn't want you to think that I was objectifying you with my male gaze.
May I see?
Oh, my good gracious.
You have extraordinary caput laterale.
There's nothing more important than physical health.
Alright, I better be going.
I have to get up early.
I'm teaching a morning Zumba class for retirees.
Before I do, Linda, do you enjoy land kayaking?
It's quite fun.
Well, it's more grueling than fun.
But I would love to take you.
Of course.
I understand.
I appreciate your caution.
I hope to see you again.
Goodbye, everyone.
Hi, guys, I just wanted to come by and thank you for a phenomenal evening.
And I should probably thank you for introducing me to Linda.
I think we had a deep emotional connection that is very worth exploring.
So I'm gonna ask her out again When she's emotionally ready.
Hey, Ron Great red shirt.
There's that shirt.
I see.
Well, thank you for being forthright and telling me.
You're a good man, Ron.
I'm quite lonely.
Ron Swanson, it is my pleasure to inform you that you are a finalist for the job of Assistant City Manager.
There is one more step in the vetting process.
You and I will embark on a quick session of heart rate meditation, focusing on conscious breathing and opening the heart chakra.
Ron, you and I are very different people, and we have often been at odds.
It is crucial that you and I spend a day spiritually engaged, and consider what it would really mean to work together.
Trust me, you'll love it.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Oh, wear your yoga pants.
This is the best meditation center in the area.
Actually, this strip mall has surprisingly decent chi.
Although, the smells from the Greek restaurant next door are not ideal.
But through this door lies a deep, serene quietude.
After you, Ron.
Now take in the vibe of the room and remain open of mind and of spirit.
Now quietly sit behind me and let's join breath.
Interesting technique.
Ron, you've radiated mindfulness.
What were you thinking about?
Incredible.
It takes a ton of work for me to get to that kind of a clear head space, no matter how hard I try.
Don't try so hard.
Ron, I'm going to try your "not trying" method right here, right now.
Oh, I didn't expect you to enjoy it.
My one reservation about you as a coworker was that you seem inflexible.
And merely by agreeing to an activity you're not interested in, you showed flexibility.
Ron, you've got the job.
You wanna head back?
Oh!
Councilman Houser I was just looking for you.
I have found my assistant city manager.
You wanna guess who it is?
It's Ron Swanson!
I'm sorry.
I should've let you guess.
I'm just so excited.
Why?
Why pin it?
Why would he do that?
Ha, that crazy and impractical plan may have to wait.
Turns out that Bobby Newport, if he beats Leslie, is going to appoint his own city manager.
So I may have offered you a job that I have no authority to offer.
I'm so so sorry.
Oh, I know.
I mean, in the grand scheme of things, who cares?
We're all just molecules, floating around in random patterns Devoid of meaning.
Well, I'll see you when I see you.
I'm a rolling stone.
Peace.
I don't usually poison my body with dark alcohol, but this whiskey is excellent!
Well, I should get back to my office.
As long as I have one.
For example?
I'm sure there are.
How's my best buddy? Just bought this.
Cranium.
It's a board game.
Have you heard of it? It is literally the most fun I have ever had.
What do you say, after work, you, me, whiskey, wheatgrass, Cranium? Ron?
Oh, God, Ron.
I am so sorry.
I'll let you get at it.
Spin team!
This is the best possible job for me.
I can literally make anything sound positive.
It's a chance to start over.
Fire is cleansing, and true wealth is measured by the amount of love in your life.
If I had to have anybody tell me that I had cancer, I would want it to be me.
Leslie Knope is literally overflowing with ideas for this town.
And speaking of methane, have you heard about her plan to limit greenhouse gas emissions?
Spin team!
Ann and I make such a great team.
It's silly that we're not a team in real life.
I just heard those words come out of my mouth, and I have made a decision.
I've heard that you and Tom Haverford are no longer romantically involved.
Is that true?
Does defy logic.
Okay, I still have feelings for you.
Strong feelings.
Emotional, primal feelings.
And I would like to give our relationship another try.
Maybe not for long.
If Newport wins, the city council may replace me.
But it would open it up for us to be together.
Would you like that?
Don't answer.
Just think about it.
Come on.
Let's spin.
Leslie Knope works tirelessly every day, so our parks can be the best they can be.
What the voters saw tonight is an undeniable fact.
That one of these candidates is right for this town, and one of them is not.
Thanks, guys.
Ann Perkins!
Uh-oh.
It was worth a shot.
Well, I hope that whoever you end up with treats like you like the amazing person that you are.
And I am going to go run some stairs and work through these feelings.
Wha I'm on it.
I'll go.
I'm going.
No.
I will do it.
I have to do it.
I need to do it.
Goodbye.
This has been a difficult year for me, romantically.
Millicent Gergich, Ann Perkins, Andy's professor lots of disappointment, but if I keep my body moving and my mind occupied at all times, I will avoid falling into a bottomless pit of despair.
I absolutely think that we should keep campaigning.
The worst possible thing we could do would be to stop, because if the campaign stops, we all stop.
And stopping is certain death.
Who wants a panini?
Anyone?
Everyone?
I'm going to say everyone.
Stop it!
April.
I just got Champion his dog food, cleaned your house, filed that paperwork you're officially April Ludgate Dwyer, installed a smoke detector, and now I'm back.
What's next?
I can't.
I've had a very tough year.
I can't stop thinking about Ann and Millicent.
And if I'm alone with my thoughts, I go to a dark place.
Thank you.
You're right.
I'll be fine.
I'm not fine.
It didn't work.
Hello.
Oh! That is very flattering.
But you're the opposition campaign manager.
I couldn't do that to Leslie.
Okay.
Ann Perkins.
Can I ask your advice on something?
Recently in a moment of weakness, I had sex with Bobby Newport's campaign manager Jennifer Barkley.
Yes.
Several times.
And then several more times.
And then a couple more times.
And then one more time.
Oh, it was just last night.
Now, I know it's a one night stand and that she's leaving town, but our ferocious sexual decathlon did radically improve my mood.
And I kind of like to see her again before she leaves.
Good idea?
Bad idea?
Ann Perkins.
Jen Barkley.
There were moments that I didn't fully understand some of the physical shapes that we were making Mm.
But the sensations were amazing.
So I just went with it.
Well, I thought that we could just talk before you left town if that's okay.
Great.
Congratulations, Mr.
Assistant City Manager.
Really? Why?
There's no job for you.
Ron has taken initiative, and he is leading the meeting.
I offered Ron a job last month, and he turned me down.
And it literally broke my heart.
But now I see that this is truly where he belongs.
Way to be, Ron!
You're really getting it done, man!
He can't hear me.
Oh, hey, little guy.
What are you doing?
Oh, no.
Everyone, meet your meat.
Ron, Chris Traeger feelings update I'm now feeling that your guests are getting a little antsy.
There you go.
What about for the children?
I know that Ron doesn't want us to eat anything before the meat, but I smuggled in some candy.
It's nature's candy.
Now, they're basically grapes.
So remember to pace yourself.
I can't even follow my own advice.
It's too delicious.
Ron, where are my vegan soy patties?
Ron, a word?
Are you aware of what's going on out in your department?
I would have liked to have seen that show.
My nomination was Jerry accidentally forwards his bank statement to everyone.
Classic And depressing.
The point of the barbecue was to thank the department.
It was an employee appreciation barbecue.
Ron, I gave you the chance to become assistant city manager.
And you chose to stay here, which is fine.
But if you're going to lead the department, you occasionally have to lead the department.
And I say that as one of your closest colleagues and dearest friends But also as your boss.
Out of the way, people.
Motivational brigade coming through.
Community college.
When you are able to focus your mind and your body, anything is possible.
Come on, Andy, come on.
You can do it.
Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go.
Dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig.
Yes!
Tom, now is not the time for criticism.
How did he do?
Andy, I'm proud of you.
Not because of what you did, which was terrible, but because of what I'm going to be able to get you to do.
I guess I'm proud of me.
We have so much work to do.
I want to find something that really motivates you.
Why do you want to achieve this goal?
Yes!
Keep going.
Dig.
Yes.
Love and family.
What else is there, really?
I exercise because, when I was a baby, I had a rare blood disorder, and I suppose I need to feel like my body's in tiptop shape Ah.
So it doesn't destroy me, leaving me to die alone.
Andy, repeat after me.
I run for April.
I run for love.
Nobody.
Nothing.
Does it really even matter?
No.
There's something wrong with my body.
My legs aren't working.
I'm broken.
I need to go to the hospital and see a doctor right away.
The tests and blood work came back, and the news is terrible.
They found nothing.
Nothing.
The silent killer.
I'm going to die one day, probably, without ever having left my mark on this silly, little planet.
I'm gonna die an anonymous, meaningless speck of dust.
Au contraire, mon frere.
You are as "in line" as a person can be.
You are a genius and an amazing motivator.
All my life, I have tried to achieve external goals.
Run a four-minute mile, climb Mount Everest.
But before I can do that, I need to climb the Mount Everest of my mind.
Fun fact about me.
I recently began intensive psychotherapy.
I may have mentioned that to you already.
Well, like my therapist says, "You can't share too much or too often."
That's too much, Jerry.
It used to be, when I was down, I called my mother.
When I lacked selfconfidence, I called my running coach.
And now, no matter what emotion I'm feeling, I call one number my therapist.
I want to do the same thing for the city.
No, Andy.
A 311 line.
Citizens will call 311 for whatever problem they have.
Uncollected garbage, broken streetlight, and we will direct them to the proper department.
Thank you, Andy.
I agree.
I love this idea.
And I love me for thinking of it.
My therapist said that I need to be more vocal about appreciating myself.
Thank you, Chris.
You're welcome, Chris.
I sound insane.
I'm going to go talk to my therapist.
Excellent work, everyone! Particularly you, Ron.
You have one very satisfied citizen.
What did you do for her?
Is that a euphemism?
Then great work.
In fact, she's out in the hallway and wants to thank you herself.
And stop!
Great job, and very informative, but we need to stop now forever and pretend like this never happened.
Actually, it's not.
The way the bill is drafted prohibits any government employee from teaching anything but abstinence, city wide.
You're welcome.
Ann Perkins, your expertise is thrilling, and frankly, almost arousing, but the law is the law.
Actually, Leslie, you're my boss now.
I'm very confident and I make a lot of eye contact.
As your city manager, I recommend that you formally apologize and that, in the future, you stick to the letter of the law, but between you and me, as your best friend
I kind of admire what you did up there.
Made me happy that I voted for you as my city council member.
Parks Department!
Chris Traeger, city manager, friend, aspiring life coach and recipient of Dr.
Richard Nygard's award for Most Improved Patient for my psychotherapy sessions.
Thanks, Jerry.
It's just a piece of paper and he only made it for me after I specifically asked for it while crying loudly, but It sure meant a lot to receive it.
In honor of Halloween, the city manager's office will be throwing a scary movie night in the courtyard.
Tonight's film is the 1986 horror camp classic, Murder At Blood Lake.
I am coming dressed as my greatest fear, because Dr.
Richard Nygard feels that I should face my fears instead of running from them.
He's very wise.
I see him five times a week.
He holds my life in his hand like a fragile little bird.
See you tonight!
Now, I missed the first three Death Canoe films.
Why exactly is it a death canoe?
Does it tip over easily?
Hey, that's my name.
Oh Here are those ankle weights I bought you that you liked so much.
Mm, the joy that I am feeling right now is profound and unmatched in the modern era.
And I can't tell you what it means to me that I'm the very first person that you chose to tell.
Let me walk around with you as you tell everyone else so that I can share true joy being spread, please?
Come on, everybody!
How about a little excitement?
Leslie and Ben are engaged!
Nothing will ever come between them!
Leslie and Ben are engaged!
Leslie and Ben are engaged!
This was literally the most beautiful and moving thing that I have ever heard.
Ann.
The toast that you gave to Ben and Leslie was so beautiful, and I'm feeling very raw from my therapy.
I am so happy And so sad.
It's like a perfect storm of emotions.
And so I'm hiding out here, so I don't ruin this party for my two amazing best friends who I love so much.
Oh!
There's no more tissue.
Everything ends!
Everything goes away.
Andy and April.
Champion!
Come here.
Hey, big boy.
You are such a brave, good dog, with so much spirit.
You've overcome so much.
You are the most wonderful dog in the whole world.
And I am so happy for you.
Mmm!
Wow, that's amazing.
This one's not as good.
This is weirdly working.
It's evening me out.
Indeed it has.
I can't believe that I spent the entire party in a room being happy sad on a night that means so much to my two best friends.
Maybe you're right.
Maybe all of my emotions tumbling out like this means that I can get a clean start.
Ann Perkins!
You are, without a doubt, the queen of toilet humor.
Wow.
Well, fun fact: Ben just got an amazing accounting job.
Regular fact: I have to go to a meeting.
Unfun fact: My Uncle just had a stroke.
Well, I'm off.
Yup.
Hi, Andy.
Did what?
Andy, another computer was reported stolen from the offices on the other side of the courtyard.
I don't think this is part of your police training.
I think City Hall was robbed.
I think.
Andy, I love your enthusiasm, but we don't really have the kind of money to launch a massive investigation.
Maybe we should find the person who stole his positive attitude.
Andy, while I appreciate your dedication to finding this criminal, I think you might want to take into account what the policeman said.
What are you doing?
City Hall needs a new parttime security guard for the weekends.
You want to do that?
Look at it as a way to feel out whether you want to be a police officer.
But, keep in mind, if you take this job, you must keep your clothes on at all times, even if you get sad.
That a boy.
Incorrect.
Very impressive.
Watching you gives me faith that anyone can reinvent themselves.
I am just filled to the brim with questions.
Why are you using this wood?
Is it more pliable?
What are these metal latches?
Are they copper or brass?
Is one better?
And if so, why?
Another in a long line of lessons from the great Ron Swanson.
My therapist, Dr.
Richard Nygard, suggested that I try some non exercise based hobbies.
So I've been studying woodworking with Ron.
I made this.
Before I started, it was bigger.
Yes, sir!
I think what's important is we all had a goal, and we achieved it.
Oh, no, it's quite terrible.
Ron, my woodworking project, it's for displaying shoes!
Hey!
How are you?
Great.
I just finished making an entry in my dream journal.
This time, the giant spider got caught in my web.
Progress.
Well, we both are in serious relationships.
You have Leslie and I have my therapist, Dr.
Richard Nygard, who I see 15 times a week.
I'd love to.
it'll be just like old times in Indianapolis.
We're back.
Mmm!
This is literally the best nonfat eggnog I've ever had.
No, but it will add exactly 440 calories.
But you know what?
I'm fine.
You only live once.
Mmm!
I don't know if you know this, but things with fat in them taste way better than things with no fat.
Ben, come meet Jerry's wife.
Gayle?
It's so good to see you.
I have someone I'd like you to meet.
Gayle, I hope you're not in any way uncomfortable that I'm here, since I dated your daughter.
Oh.
Will you look at that?
Yeah.
Relax, gloomy goose.
She really was delightful.
I truly wish her all the best.
It's just a picture.
Hi.
Well.
Hi, there.
Hi.
How did you two meet?
Ah, so random, right? What a story! I felt like my heart was whitewater rafting.
Well, I won't keep you guys.
It's good to see you.
Mwah.
Oh, little tip, there is fat in the eggnog.
I'm fine.
If therapy has taught me anything, it's that I need to face my fears, even when my fears are engaged to a man with the chiseled jawline of a young me.
Thank you, Ben.
For looking out for me tonight.
You're a good friend.
There's no logical explanation.
Ann Perkins, Maid of Honor, are you ready for the bachelorette party?
I told Ben he could do whatever he wants.
Sky is the limit.
We have Haverford, Swanson, Dwyer Jerry forced his way in there somehow things are bound to get crazy.
Ben, this is your night.
We do what you want to do.
Come on, let's play.
Okay.
All right.
Guys, come on over here.
Gather round.
I want to propose a toast.
To our new Lord of Catan, Ben Wyatt, a great friend and a wonderful man.
May you and Leslie find eternal happiness together.
But, Tom, this is Ben's night.
You never had one before you were married to Wendy?
New idea!
Tonight, everyone gets the bachelor party they never had.
One activity per bachelor.
Welcome to Tom's bachelor party, held in a white airplane hangar from the ice planet Hoth, replete with dangling, beautiful aerialists.
To Tom Haverford.
You know what?
All that matters is that you got married, and you're happy.
So as all time best man, I suggest we raise a cone to Jerry Gergich.
Andy, you're next.
Any activity in the world.
What would you do?
Hey, Jim, Chris Traeger.
I need a favor.
Hey, guys!
Guys, come on over here.
Andy, I want you to meet Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay.
Jim Irsay and I became friends while volunteering to mentor Indianapolis teens.
I gave them tours of the state house.
Jim gave them Colts tickets and autographed jerseys.
They preferred Jim.
girls what's my weakness?
Ann Perkins!
We're having the time of our lives, and I'm calling you to rub it in!
Whoo!
We went to an insane bar, played football with the Colts.
Now we're going to a steakhouse.
What are you doing?
Whoa!
Okay, okay, okay.
There are so many things that I could say about Ron, but I think that the best man's speech should represent the groom.
So I will just say To Ron.
Oh!
Hey!
Hey, guys, I had these Tshirts made.
They're not exactly a summary of the party we ended up having.
But they're a good memento.
I just remembered.
We left Jerry back at the gas station in Martinsville.
I'll go get him.
Hey, guys.
What are you doing here?
You know, the old Chris would've loved this super fit health goddess you guys are talking about.
But our great adventure reminded me that now I just want someone that values the important things in life, friendships, passion, happiness.
And dimples are a plus.
Ben Wyatt.
And Shauna Malwae-Tweep.
You may be right about that.
I have thousands of seconds.
Would you like to have lunch? Are you a vegetarian? A vegan? A pescatarian? Not that it matters.
Perfect.
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh! Three, ten, bullock! Three, ten, bullock! Give it to me.
An equal gender employment commission.
Leslie, I don't think this is a good idea.
I think it's a fantastic idea.
The lack of women in this government is criminal.
I'm gonna ask each department to send two people to a meeting today.
And!
Andand I can ask Shauna MalwaeTweep to write an article about it for the Pawnee Journal.
She's my special friend.
I don't know what to call her.
I don't entirely understand the behavior of young people.
Recently, we engaged in something called a "group hang."
It was like a date, but there were seven other people there.
It was very confusing.
I'm not really sure what our label is.
Labels can be bad, but they can also be good.
"Warning: Toxic bleach" is a good label.
Shauna MalwaeTweep has amazing dimples.
Yes, right, the commission.
I'm gonna get that going right now.
I just assumed that some of the departments would send women.
Oh, my God.
I am part of the problem.
Let's play a word association game.
I'll say a word, and then you say the first thing that pops into your mind.
You.
Me.
Us.
According to Leslie's binder, she and April are making even better time than the guys do on a normal day.
Oh!
Ooh.
That's really confusing.
I have a request.
Could you please make sure that my involvement in this stays off the record? I wouldn't want anyone thinking that you're biased because we're something.
I guess I'll have to wait for tomorrow's paper to find out our status.
Why did I have to fall for somebody from the old media?
Hey, Leslie! Shauna just sent me the disclaimer that she's gonna use before she prints the article.
City manager Chris Traeger was present for this event, and has a personal relationship with the author.
It's not romantic.
But it is descriptive.
No, it's not even descriptive.
Great advice.
Impossible to follow, but great advice.
What a gorgeous herbaceous medley.
Oh, the mini calzone?
It was literally just a small calzone.
I was dying earlier today.
And then I died.
Now I'm dead.
I had to cancel a date with Shauna MalwaeTweep.
And I really like her.
Do you think she'll still like me now that I'm dead?
Has anybody talked to Tom?
I can't even imagine what that tiny little man must be feeling like.
We need to call him.
We must reach out to him.
I can't do it.
Are you sure?
Is there anything that you didn't eat?
Well, I'm feeling so much better.
Almost no weird stuff snuck out of my body last night.
Maybe there's a catering company in Snerling that we should look into.
Thank you.
Leslie!
Leslie, we need you back at the command center right now!
We have a class one city emergency.
Oh, this is just a drill, but I am having so much fun pretending it's real.
All right, officers, bolt the doors.
We are officially in lockdown mode.
The doors will not open until Leonard announces that this drill is complete.
Step one insert the DVD scenario.
Okay, casualty update only four dead, two of whom were already gravely ill and brothers.
That family took a terrible hit.
Well, that's great news.
A few months ago, the thought of an infectious disease, even hypothetical, would have sent me careening towards Bummerville, but now I am infected with a killer virus, and I feel fine.
Therapy!
That is impossible.
I do not ride the bus.
I ride my bicycle behind the bus as a windbreak.
I'm afraid I have some very bad news.
I, Chris Traeger, after several sustained hours of diarrhea, combined with violent coughing and a devastating fever, followed by even more diarrhea, have succumbed to the avian flu.
I'm dead.
And it is a wrap.
Everyone in Pawnee is dead.
Including Councilman Jamm.
Hello, Chief Fugleberg.
Oh, no.
Did he fail his test?
Oh, Andy.
Oh, let me be on rings.
I love what they symbolize.
Oh!
Oh, these aren't bad.
I hate to say this, but Ann Perkins has terrible taste in rings.
What what is this?
It's a toe ring with a brown gemstone?
Is this a ruby that's gone bad?
Terrible.
And perfect.
I promised myself I was not going to cry tonight.
And I have already broken that promise five times.
But I will not break it a sixth.
I have something for you.
It is the letter from the statehouse Telling us that we have been assigned to Pawnee.
Dated may 1st, 2010.
We were supposed to be here eight weeks.
I'm so happy that those eight weeks turned into three years, and that you met Leslie, and that we both found a home.
It's okay, buddy, let it out.
How's it going in here?
Andy, this is a very important moment for you.
How we deal with tragedy defines who we are.
I used to be terrible at it.
Beyond terrible.
You are not going to let this deflate you.
You are going to pick yourself up, dust yourself off, and we will figure out what the next step is.
And a super gift.
Ann Perkins!
Great idea!
I'll run to my next meeting.
Absolutely.
I cannot wait.
One second.
Excuse me, sir.
I think I accidentally got the meat option.
Shauna MalwaeTweep, my exgirlfriend.
It seems like you and I have a classic mix 'em up.
This isn't awkward for you, is it?
Definitely.
Right here.
Hilarious.
Jaguar.
Why do you ask?
There is nothing more disgusting than an invasion of privacy.
And I should know.
I've had many women steal my undershirts.
Here's one to me, and it just says "Thanks."
You're welcome.
Ann Perkins, I see you behind that attractive purse.
You haven't returned any of my calls.
I am touched and honored that you would even consider me to be the father of your child.
And I'm glad that you came right out and said it.
I mean, if we're really considering this, then we have to start at a place of complete honesty.
Can I have just a little bit of time to think about it?
All these kids have fathers and mothers who have birthed them and are guiding them through life.
I am 100% certain that I am 0% sure of what I'm going to do.
Ann Perkins asked me if I would like to donate sperm, so she can have a baby.
It's a battle between my primal desire to bring a child into this world and my paralyzing fear of negatively affecting any living thing.
Ben, that is literally the greatest idea in human history.
Tom, I have something I need to talk to you about.
Yes.
MonaLisa's taking advantage of you.
And I'm sure that it's not easy when it's the sister of a dear friend.
Speak directly to her and tell her, "I will not be disrespected."
You're Tom Haverford.
You're a smart, successful young man with an adorable, little belly.
Stand up for yourself.
You're welcome.
Son.
Nothing.
Tom, how did it go with MonaLisa?
Hey.
Nothin'.
Can we talk later?
Okay.
I made everything worse.
If Tom were a bag of flour, that flour would never grow up to be a happy, welladjusted loaf of bread.
Much less a bran muffin, which is the highest honor that flour can achieve.
I care about Ann very deeply, but I just don't know if I'm cut out to be a dad.
And very well said, right up until that moment that you started babbling incoherently.
Well.
Looks like things with Mona-Lisa are Continuing.
Indeed.
The small victories.
Fair enough.
Is there anything else you need help with? Have you learned how to ride a bike yet?
I'm proud of you, bud.
Ann Perkins.
Oh, happy.
Obviously.
The bad news one sounds like this.
Ann Perkins.
Well, I've thought about it.
And I'm in.
I want to be a parent.
I want to raise a child, with all the ups and downs and challenges that comes with it.
Me too.
Well, I guess your uter-you and my uter-me are now our uter-us.
Okay, are you done?
Are we done?
Did we win?
Last year I won an organic gardening contest.
My own taste buds.
Oh, I think it's fantastic.
I think it's literally the best score we could have hoped for.
Yes, we did not win.
Look, I know that this is just a silly quiz, but it is so discouraging to do so poorly.
That's a great idea!
Oh, boy.
Look, we can use anything as a baby.
I mean, we could use this mug.
And it's not like we failed.
We got a 58%, which as I'm saying it, sounds very clearly like we failed.
Boy.
Buddhist.
Whatever he wants.
Sixtime tour de France champion.
No, no, no.
We actually know each other quite well.
Great, let's do it!
Ann Perkins.
I know it didn't seem to go very well at the counselor's.
But I have found a new quiz, and I think we should take it.
Take a look.
You see, I think that's the only question that matters.
All the rest of it is details.
I said the exact same thing.
We're 100% on the same page.
You are caring, intelligent, and reliable.
And I am certain that you will literally be the world's best mom.
Yes, sorry.
It does seem to be very poorly run, but we've only been here for two minutes.
There may be a method to their madness.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
Ow!
Ah!
What is this?
Ah!
This hurts!
Ow!
You're fired!
You're fired!
The whole department is fired.
Ow, this hurts!
This was one of my running feet!
How do you know him?
Oh, I guess I'm leaving.
Good to see you.
Great meeting!
Don't think about how much this itches.
That's very good advice.
I'm not going to lie to you.
I needed that.
I know.
Harris, we know who you are.
I literally just fired you.
Well, you have all the qualifications.
You went to a four year college.
No, no, you're not fired, but we're definitely going to have to lower your salary.
You see Dr. Richard Nygard?
I'm a Nygardian too!
Would you sign my cast?
I liked him.
I think you've got several options.
They're all terrible, but you have them.
She is not ready.
Now, you've rushed her into this, and now, Jamm's sharpening the knives.
Leslie, no one needs to be jammed today.
I like the idea of double the signings, but I think the negatives outweigh the positives.
Councilman, you have to admit that that idea makes a lot of sense.
At Leslie's suggestion, I have made you deputy director of Animal Control within the Parks Department.
You'll be amazing at it, and the best part, there is no confirmation hearing.
Leslie, I really have to go to the bathroom.
You don't have to come in with me.
Could you pick up the pace a little bit?
Now that you run the Animal Control department, you have qualified for the Chris Traeger Management Training Seminar or "Katumts."
It's not a great acronym, but it is a great seminar.
Ron Swanson and April Ludgate, literally my two favorite people in the catalogued universe.
I just want April to become as great a department head as yourself.
Ron, you've never been "katumtsed?"
I am legally required to katumts every department head.
Otherwise, we are open to all kinds of liability.
I'm saying that tomorrow during the seminar, April is going to have a classmate.
And spoiler alert
It's you.
Please write down what you hope to gain from the seminar, seal it in the envelope, and then we'll open it when it's over.
As soon as you learn to embrace the power of positive motivation.
It's a nine hour seminar over two days.
All right, let's begin.
Hop on board "The Management Train."
First stop Motivation Station.
All aboard!
Think of yourselves as engineers steering a locomotive of positivity that runs on team power.
Oh, I disagree.
What about encouragement, appreciation, and smiles.
When people feel supported, they will literally explode with productivity.
Thank you for your input, April, but the katumts requires that we follow a very specific syllabus.
My God, I've taught you so much already.
Ron, I propose a challenge to see whose motivational methods are more effective.
I don't want to seem overdramatic, but this is literally a battle for April's soul.
Jerry Gergich.
I need you to stop whatever it is you're doing and file as many of these as you can.
Well, I knew you were the man for the job.
You are smart and capable.
And I believe you can accomplish anything.
You got it, champ.
Get filing.
That is one motivated worker bee.
Yes!
Wait a minute.
How is that possible?
Another fascinating edition of "katumts."
We may never know conclusively which way works better.
But I do know this-- When we first started the seminar, I hoped to be able to engage you in the process.
And by that measure I succeeded.
What did April write? Where is April?
I think April will be a fine manager.
Yes, I get that a lot.
So my childhood illness there's no chance I would pass that on?
This today?
None.
One other question.
Completely off topic.
Would I be providing this sample today?
Goodbye, Ann Perkins, my excellent employee.
Hello, Ann Perkins, my fallopian princess.
Sounds romantic.
I guess it's go time.
Oh, no, no.
I go in alone with this pornographic disc and do it myself.
And you stay out here and try not to think about what I'm doing in there.
And I try not to think about you waiting out here trying not to think about me.
Should I think about you?
This is so weird.
Yes, we do have very important pamphlet reading to do.
Excellent idea, Ann Perkins.
Do I keep this?
These pamphlets are fascinating.
It says here that some men gain "sympathy weight" when their partners get pregnant.
If that happens to me, I'd be miserable.
But happy.
But sad.
Let me remove my clothes so we may begin to engage in physical activity to multiply our genes.
And it's also weird because we dated and we remember what it's like to engage in some of those physical activities.
Yes, we were.
Yes, we were.
Oh, well, then, we should definitely go look for those.
We need to find those.
Hi.
Should I keep walking towards you?
Great plan.
Hi.
Okay.
I would love to.
Well, I completely agree.
Of course.
We should discuss and consider all the possibilities.
The most important thing for me and I think for you is that we have a child.
And I don't want to do anything to jeopardize that.
I really do.
Absolutely.
I can be a sort of Conversational lubricant.
I love being a caddy.
It's so much more than just carrying clubs.
It's about offering positive reinforcement.
I consider myself a caddy to everyone in my life.
Nice shot!
Great sweeping.
Way to be, duck.
Ron, are you gonna be joining us?
Hey, everybody, great news.
They gave us free mylar balloons.
The Councilman is away Good luck to you both.
I have two important pieces of caddy information.
Councilman Jamm leads by eight strokes, and you are both about to set a course record.
For friendship.
On to the next hole.
Guys, I'm gonna let Julie go home.
It's getting late, and Jeremy's eaten all the syrup.
Thank you.
It's been an honor working alongside you.
Sudden death playoff on the very course that hangs in the balance.
I could literally faint if I didn't have impeccable blood pressure.
This is it.
Ron leads by one.
If he hits the ball into the dragon's mouth, he gets Jamm's vote.
Hole in one!
Excellent win, Ron.
Even better loss, Leslie.
Ultimately, we learn the most about ourselves through the losses.
Hello, fellow Pawneeans.
As you know, the founder's week festivities kick off tomorrow.
Um, one small announcement: Due to a tragic misunderstanding, the prettiest pig beauty pageant has been replaced by a pork rib barbecue competition.
Oh, no.
Together, as a town, we lost an amount of weight equal to 800 pregnant manatees.
Have you ever considered not eating that for breakfast?
What a wonderful event.
Everyone is having fun.
This is great.
I'm sorry, I was just trying to cheer you up.
Just hang in there.
All right, if you'll excuse me, I found out this morning that I am playing a special role in this parade.
No spoilers.
Leslie, Leslie.
I'm so sorry.
I need to talk to you.
I'm the Nipple King.
Thank you.
It's such an amazing honor.
But I do need to talk to you about a float that is in this parade, because I'm not sure that you're going to be
Uhoh.
Oh, Leslie, this goes without saying, but if you need any speeches or testimonials or just general enthusiasm for your recall fight, I'm your man.
You're welcome.
I'll see you at the river.
Oh, oh, oh!
Last one to pick up has still accomplished a great deal.
Leslie Knope!
Ann Perkins.
Mm.
How's the recall fight going?
Someone has a slug infestation?
Boy, oh, boy, we live interesting lives, filled with unexpected challenges.
Life is precious, and every day is a miracle.
Okay.
Oh, my God, this is real.
I just assumed you were lying.
Hey, it's Tom!
No, you certainly cannot.
Ohh.
Ohh.
This is the moment we were dreaming of: you and me and our baby.
And Tom and his weird feud with our doctor.
I just never thought that I would get to make this announcement.
It's a very special day.
Okay.
Hi, Donna.
My goodness, you're observant.
Yesterday.
Hey, Jerry.
I didn't know you were working today.
That's great.
Now, here's a piece of information that is interesting.
Ann is pregnant, and it's my baby.
I'm very sad.
Please stop talking.
My point is, Ethel, that Ann's pregnant.
And I'm the baby daddy!
You don't seem very excited for us.
I agree.
Wait a minute, what time is it? Has she landed yet?
Oh, oh, oh, eventually, she's going to have to go back to work.
We are so glad you're back.
We talked to, like, 50 people, and, frankly, not one of them gave us the reaction that we were hoping for.
You know what I just read? Right now, our baby is the size of a green olive.
Isn't that wild?
A green olive.
A little high in sodium.
I would have preferred a chickpea or a cherry tomato.
Yes, right.
It's still just our thing.
It'll always be just our thing.
That's why it's so wonderful and why we'll love it so much.
I prefer "Chickpea."
Yes, exactly.
I did.
Think fast.
I just got off the phone with our old boss from Indianapolis, and apparently there may be some sort of a budget problem in Eagleton.
He asked if maybe you and I wouldn't have a look.
You in?
Hmm.
Auditing bros!
Be an Eagletonian.
Can you give us a little more information surrounding the deficits that you're running this year?
Why don't we just dig in and see what we're up against?
What a hilarious word.
It reminds me of a ridiculous donkey.
He's the best.
I love Michael Buble.
Well, um, some of these expenditures are questionable.
Uh, you filled the public pools with bottled water?
Alright.
Uh, Leslie's put together a presentation for a financial recovery.
Oh, my God.
They have Michael Buble on retainer.
Eagleton: No money, mo' problems.
I do like a good internal rhyme.
We looked at every alternative.
This is the only scenario that prevents Eagleton's financial crisis from spiraling throughout the entire region.
Travelin' Ann Perkins! How was Bloomington?
#NAME?
I-I know.
I'm just so excited.
Councilwoman Knope is your merger czar, and in the binders that she's provided, you will find directions to your department in Pawnee that most closely matches your department in Eagleton.
Today, we are not just merging two towns.
We're throwing a birthday party for a new city.
Happy birthday, New Pawnee.
When we were state auditors, we had an amazing system.
Like a majestic alleyoop.
You're all amazing!
Teamwork.
It is excellent having the old band back together again.
You know what?
This calls for some celebratory lunges.
One two
Ben, it has been an honor watching you work today.
It's been like watching Leonardo work.
Da Vinci or DiCaprio.
You're that good.
Ben, that's a great idea.
Hey, you know what?
I know who I'm gonna use to calculate tax and tip.
Well, it's called the "Good Earth Salad," but really, it's just cheese, toffee, and gummy bear worms.
This town is really unhealthy.
I actually think it's something else.
Back in the day, this was all we had.
We'd go into a town, we'd fix problems.
We'd go back to some rundown motel.
But now, Ann and Leslie are our real partners.
Just so you know, we're thinking of moving.
Don't know where yet.
Maybe Michigan, to be with Ann's family.
Something healthy! A cherry tomato.
Nope.
A gumball.
Excuse me, we have an issue.
A tweet has been tweeted from the Parks and Rec Twitter, and I'm afraid it is quite sexually graphic.
Whoever it is, it's quite serious.
Take a look at this.
Donna, there is trouble a-brewin'.
Then there's a picture of a pair of lips and then a picture of an eggplant.
I'm both confused, and if we're being totally honest, a little aroused.
Not on her watch.
No sullying allowed!
Guard your buds, 'cause they're about to get nipped!
Okay.
Leslie, I am sorry, but I could not postpone these pointless hearings that Jamm is having.
He is just determined.
No.
No.
No.
Yes.
I think that you ask a lot of the people that you work with, and I think that people do what you ask because they love you.
But, I also think that driving people as hard as you do can ruffle some feathers.
I think a lot of things.
I like thinking.
And racquetball.
I spent the last hour reading some of Donna's old tweets, and it turns out there are some more things that she said about you.
Message to the recall haters: You can't keep Leslie Knope down.
She's too real for this ish.
hashtag boss bitch.
It appears, whereas "bitch boss" is clearly an indication of her frustration, "boss bitch" is a term of endearment.
Isn't language fun?
It's like racquetball for your mouth!
Leslie!
Leslie!
Leslie!
I'm sorry, but we have a problem.
His name is Jeremy Jamm.
She's filibustering on roller skates?
She's gonna be strapped into those things for hours.
This is literally the most exciting thing that I've ever seen.
I mean, think about it.
Where else on earth would you rather spend your birthday with Leslie?
Okay, she's fading.
Ben, we need to find a way to smuggle some mineral oil drops onto her tongue.
It is so inspiring to see Eagletonians putting aside their prejudices.
With support like this, Leslie Knope may stand a fighting chance on recall day.
Permission to hug you.
What?
Sir, I formally revoke our hug.
I mean, she's not gonna make it.
Look at her, she's dancing around like she's a character in one of those Peanuts cartoons.
April, you seem depressed, and I would know.
I spent most of last year being treated by Dr. Richard Nygard for my own emotional problems.
Larry, please.
We're having a private conversation.
Well, I'd like to make Halloween fun for you, like Andy would have, starting right now... With scary, scary monster claws!
Larry, everyone is miserable, and you are only making it worse.
Are you eating a paunch burger?
Have you thought about a concession speech?
Eat my shorts, Jabronies.
Knope, out.
I am scaring you!
What about this?
I'm Bert Macklin, friendly lifeguard.
Really?
That's even harder to believe.
I understand.
I'm sorry.
I've failed you, both as a scary monster and a friend.
Thank you, April.
Happy Halloween.
And if you want to egg Larry's house, come find me.
That's a funny joke, April.
But the truth is, I'm very much in love with Ann.
Hey, what's up guys?
Ron Swanson, you cannot use this crib.
You're ignoring every known crib safety standard.
It's all covered in the parenting book I'm reading.
Are you going to crawl my way?
By Lenny Kravitz.
I bought my crib in Bloomington, and I am confident that it is literally the safest crib in the explored universe.
Let me take you there, and you can talk to the salesperson.
Counter-counteroffer you come with me, or I make you attend a four hour fax cover sheet protocol meeting.
Either way, it's a win for me.
Ann found this place.
It's where we bought our "Sounds of Nature" machine.
Frasier!
Chris Traeger.
Do you remember me?
I came in here looking for the Vanna White book on child care, I'd like to solve the puzzle of parenting.
Could you show my friend, Ron, that amazing crib that you sold me?
The Babylove L'il Sweetheart Safe 4 Ever and Ever model.
I'm sorry?
Is that good?
It sounds bad.
Ron, I want to do things the Swanson way.
Fun.
I'd like you to teach me to build a crib.
Because I no longer trust anything other than my own two hands.
It is debilitating, but exciting.
Wonderful.
Look at us both standing on the cusp of fatherhood.
I know we haven't spent a lot of time together, but
Thank you for the woodworking lesson, Ron.
This whole crib recall thing has got me literally rethinking everything I thought I knew about parenting.
What sleep method will you be using Ferber, Sears?
I really wish Ron would engage, but he exudes so much wisdom that I can learn parenting tips simply by being in his presence.
Someone like Ron is teaching even when they're not teaching.
Does that make sense?
My anxiety has kept me up for over 50 hours.
All you need to do is guide it into place.
What I get from that is, when parenting, sometimes a subtle hand is more effective than a strong one.
This is already so much more helpful than the last book on parenting I read: Rad Dads by Apolo Anton Ohno and Shaun White.
Ron, why did you throw that wood away?
I just don't understand "the throwing away the wood" metaphor.
What's the lesson?
Oh, I know!
It's potty training.
That trash can is the toilet, and the wood was the feces.
No, I know you're not consciously teaching me anything.
I'm trying to siphon off some of your calm, centered wisdom through metaphors.
- An organized child is a--
Ron, what's this?
Well, Ron, I can't accept.
This is for your baby.
It's beautiful.
Thank you.
Thank you, Ron for the crib and the advice.
It's much better than any metaphor.
Was that Ann?
I hope you were speaking to her in a calming voice 'cause babies can hear everything.
Baby, if you can still hear me, I love you.
Oh, sorry.
Yes, but as city manager, I can't play sides.
And I think all of our heads can be a little dinky at times.
No.
No, I can't help directly, but I am on your side.
And I will assist you in any way that I can.
Maybe I can mediate, like Dr. Phil, only qualified.
And I am here to mediate.
Well, I don't need to do that.
My feet are very clean.
Caution, Jeremy.
I think there are people that will find the "No Married Chicks" zone both morally repugnant and hard to enforce.
Perhaps he has a point.
And we've made some progress.
Maybe we go home and take the rest of it up on Monday.
I would like to buy five DVDs of this.
No, 20.
No, 60!
No, that's insane.
Leslie put a beautiful cross into the box, Jeremy.
Time for you to head it in.
Leslie, you have your lockbox.
And you scored a triple dragon on your song.
You have his word.
And this is riddled with spelling errors, but it is binding.
You left me no choice.
Please, could you excuse us?
Leslie, you should be happy!
You beat Jamm in the final battle.
Unless there's something more going on here.
Ann Perkins?
I love Ann Perkins.
Leslie, I'm sorry.
Ann didn't just go to Ann arbor to visit family.
She went to sign the lease on our new home.
She already has family there.
And I have a new job lined up at the University of Michigan.
Go blue!
It's a good town.
And it's a great place to raise a family.
BFF slideshow?
You know that even after we leave Pawnee, Ann will always be your best friend.
And it's not that long a trip.
You know, I went to Jamm's with you because I also want to leave the right kind of legacy, and that includes Pawnee commons.
I have an idea.
And I'd like you to consider it a good-bye gift from me to you.
You give Leslie her lockbox, and you get me in your hip pocket.
Starting in my next term as city manager, I will give you one huge I.O.U., no questions asked.
You drive a hard bargain, but you leave me no choice.
Fine.
Five huge IOUs.
Well, it's not the most ethical thing that I've ever done, but on the flip side, Jamm is a big, mean dope.
And I hope that this eases some of the pain of us moving away a little bit.
Speaking of which, how's the new gig coming?
The reason I ask is this town is gonna need a new city manager.
And I've talked to some people, and you have the votes if you want the job.
This is 100% certified for realskis.
#NAME?
Dr. Saperstein.
I know that we should hate you because you destroyed our friend's business, but we love you so much.
Oh, my God Should we?
Is there an option other than yes or no?
It's like the Oscars.
I would be thrilled if we have a girl.
And also girls' names are so cute.
Daisy, Annabelle, Lilly
And also two waters, please, but no hurry.
I would be thrilled if we had a boy.
I have perfected the art of shaving the human face, and I would love to be able to pass that on.
A weird image, but one that does not diminish my enthusiasm.
Well, Ann Perkins, are you ready to find out the sex of our baby?
We are having a "Distributions."
That's what it looks like, "Distributions."
We are having an "eleven jewel toilet."
I'm calling Dr. Saperstein.
Oh, no.
He's out for the rest of the day.
I have literally never been more stressed out.
With my baby.
Thank you.
Well, this is it. The final moment.
What are you hoping for?
Me, too.
Boy or girl, it doesn't matter.
Because it will literally be the greatest child who has ever lived.
You?
Yes! Yes! I thought you didn't have a preference!
Me, too.
I don't know why.
Oh, Larry.
We've been taking pictures all over City Hall to show our unborn baby where we met.
Would you mind?
No, it's kind of taken a back seat.
That literally went on forever.
I thought you were never gonna stop talking.
But now that you have, Ann Perkins, will you marry me?
Oh, no, no, no.
I'mI'm a bit of a germaphobe.
Ann Perkins
I would like to spend the rest of my life with you.
I love you.
Let's do this right.
Let's go get an engagement ring.
This is so exciting.
Oh. No.
This isn't a shotgun wedding, although, yes, she is pregnant, and, yes, we did just decide to get married today.
I was getting gas.
No, I don't remember it.
We could engrave "2014" or "TBD."
When you think about it, we are already more married than most married people.
That was a fantastic season finale and a show that is literally a neverending roller coaster of emotion.
Theodore, we would like to return that ring.
And get a refund, please.
You have a lovely store.
On the other hand, there are some benefits to being married: Taxes, health insurance, and I don't have to feel weird when hotel employees call me "Mr. Perkins."
Maybe we should.
I don't know anymore.
Ann, that is a beautiful sentiment.
Perfect timing.
We are going to buy this ring.
Charge it.
Ann Perkins, will you marry me?
Me either!
Maybe let's not?
Actually, we don't want the ring.
Oh, how old is your son?
And when we did date, we broke up, but you didn't realize it, and that was very embarrassing for you.
And then we got pregnant as friends, and then we fell in love.
We've never been very conventional, so why start now?
Theodore? We will not be needing that ring, but we would like to purchase this locket.
How much?
Thank you!
Good morning, Ann Perkins.
How are you feeling today?
Whales don't have feet.
Oh!
Let me rub them.
Oh, wait.
No.
I read something on raddadsolutions.net that there's a pressure point in the foot that could induce labor.
Oh, no, no, I'll cut them in half for you.
And I will pour you a glass of flaxseed milk to wash it down.
Everything is amazing.
Today is perfect, and I love you.
Smoothie's ready!
Ann Perkins!
How are you feeling?
It's all I want to know.
Well, never fear.
I will get you Tylenol for your pain and shea butter for your belly.
And your voluptuous figure only means your body is working exactly as nature intended it.
There, it's all good.
Is that better?
I've been reading up on nipples.
The reason that you're feeling nipple sensitivity is because your milk ducts in your nipples are opening up, which is why I bought you this nipple kit.
It's from Kernsten's: the nipple people.
It has nipple cream, nipple pads, and also a special nipple pimple ointment in case you develop any pimples on your nipples.
Okay.
Anyway.
Hopefully that will help you with any sensitivity that may arise around your boob hats.
Hey, friends.
I'm just about to go on my night jog.
Would you like to join me?
I literally have 1000 questions.
Why is Ron wearing headphones?
What's whine & cheese club?
And what is Ann complaining about?
She's upset that I'm trying to help her?
Why are you yelling?
"That sucks"?
Oh, hey.
How was your day?
That sucks.
That really sucks.
I'm sorry that I was trying to fix all your problems.
Thank you all so much for helping me with these boxes.
I'm just a little behind because every time I start, I get a little emotional.
You have just found your buddy boxes.
Each box contains a memento of our friendship.
I was gonna give them to you later, but there is no time like the present.
Fun pun alert.
It's from our turkey versus beef cookoff, remember?
You were a worthy adversary.
That was the year you went from being an auditor to a legend.
I did have to go to a very seedy location to find it, but now I know where to go to place a bet on horse fighting.
We have been on the prowl for some amazing pots.
Either way, this is great.
You know what?
We should get to the goodbye party, although I know it's mostly for Ann.
Carob cookies and berries are literally my favorite dessert alternative.
I'll go get changed.
Hey, guys, what's going on?
Let's see what's in here.
Some assorted items.
And some pieces of paper.
Donna, you are a remarkable woman, and I just wanted to say that I've always thought of you as family.
Yes, I know.
April--
That is remarkably close to what I was going to say.
Also, I'm proud of you.
Donna, are you grabbing my butt?
No!
Guys, look what I got at the president's day booth.
Ask not what your country can do for you.
Guys, I don't need anything from you.
My buddy boxes are about the past, but let's focus on the future.
Because we're always gonna be friends.
And just the fact that you feel bad about your bag of nothing proves that.
To the future.
Guys, what are you doing here? Come in.
You caught me before my first run of the day.
I call it my "beat the sun" run.
It's a race between me and the sun.
Wait a minute, who's G-J-L-G-G?
Well, um Thank you.
Um, this tear, um, caused by the overwhelming thoughtfulness of my friends will be my baby's first memory.
Will do, Ron Swanson.
It was your idea to get me that box.
But it had that trademark Ben Wyatt mix of thoughtful and resourceful.
You are literally the best friend that I will ever have.
Leslie Knope.
I just wanna say that getting to know you and watching you work has been one of the greatest experiences of my life-- that and working with Dr. Richard Nygard.
Right.
Hey, buddy.
Good.
Yeah.
Yeah, this could go on for some time.
Leslie, you are the master of the metaphor.
I recently compared her to a nutrient-rich chia seed.
Oh!
I do that literally 50 times a day.
Well, I am now.
Andy, it's Chris.
Ann Arbor, Michigan, is literally the greatest city that I have ever lived in.
But Pawnee is better.
So, we're moving back.
Yeah.
I'm going to run admissions at Indiana.
I'm trading Wolverines for Hoosiers.
