...and harmony has been maintained in Equestria for generations since. Hmm... Elements of Harmony. I know I've heard of those before... but where?
Oh, sorry, girls... I've got a lot of studying to catch up on.
I know I've heard of the Elements of Harmony.
Spike! Spi-ike! Spike?
There you are. Quick, find me that old copy of Predictions and Prophecies. What's that for?
Oh Spike, you know we don't have time for that sort of thing.
No, no, no... no, no, no! Spike!
Ah! Elements, Elements, E, E, E... Aha! Elements of Harmony, see: Mare in the Moon?
Mare, mare... aha! The Mare in the Moon, myth from olden pony times. A powerful pony who wanted to rule Equestria, defeated by the Elements of Harmony and imprisoned in the moon. Legend has it that on the longest day of the thousandth year, the stars will aid in her escape, and she will bring about nighttime eternal! Spike! Do you know what this means?
Take a note please, to the Princess.
My dearest teacher, my continuing studies of pony magic have led me to discover that we are on the precipice of disaster!
Threshold.
Uh, brink? Ugh, that something really bad is about to happen! For you see, the mythical Mare in the Moon is in fact Nightmare Moon, and she's about to return to Equestria, and bring with her eternal night! Something must be done to make sure this terrible prophecy does not come true. I await your quick response. Your faithful student, Twilight Sparkle.
Great! Send it.
Of course!
That's just it, Spike. The day after tomorrow is the thousandth year of the Summer Sun Celebration! It's imperative that the Princess is told right away!
Important!
Oh, I'm not worried, Spike. The Princess trusts me completely. In all the years she's been my mentor she's never once doubted me.
See? I knew she would want to take immediate action.
Mm-hm!
Yes, yes it does. You know why? Because I'm right! I'll check on the preparations as fast as I can, then get to the library to find some proof of Nightmare Moon's return.
She said to check on preparations. I am her student, and I'll do my royal duty, but the fate of Equestria does not rest on me making friends.
Thank you, sirs.
Um... hello?
Well, that was interesting all right.
Let's get this over with... Good afternoon. My name is Twilight Sparkle<U+0097>
Friends? Actually, I<U+0097>
Well, I am in fact here to supervise preparations for the Summer Sun Celebration. And you're in charge of the food?
As long as it doesn't take too long...
Thanks, but I really need to hurry<U+0097>
Okay, well, I can see the food situation is handled, so we'll be on our way.
Sorry, but we have an awful lot to do...
...fine.
Ugh... I ate too much pie...
Well, she's not doing a very good job, is she?
Nng.
Nnnn.
Let me guess. You're Rainbow Dash.
I heard you were supposed to be keeping the sky clear. I'm Twilight Sparkle, and the Princess sent me to check on the weather.
Practicing for what?
The Wonderbolts?
The most talented flyers in all of Equestria?
Pfft! Please. They'd never accept a Pegasus who can't even keep the sky clear for one measly day.
Prove it.
Rrgh.
Yes, the d<e9>cor is coming along nicely. This ought'a be quick. I'll be at the library in no time. Beautiful indeed.
Good afternoon<U+0097>
Oh, you mean my mane? Well, it's a long story. I'm just here to check on the decorations, and then I'll be out of your hair!
Wait! Where are we going?! Help!
I've... been sent... from Canterlot... to<U+0097>
Quick! Before she decides to dye my coat a new color!
Focus, Casanova. What's next on the list?
Hello!
Oh my, I'm so sorry, I didn't mean to frighten your birds. I'm just here to check up on the music and it's sounding beautiful. I'm Twilight Sparkle. What's your name?
I'm sorry, what was that?
Didn't quite catch that.
Well, um, it looks like your birds are back, so I guess everything's in order. Keep up the good work!
Oookay. Well, that was easy.
Well, in that case we'd better be going.
I am so sorry, how did we get here so fast? This is where I'm staying while in Ponyville and my poor baby dragon needs his sleep.
Aww, wook at dat, he's so sweepy he can't even keep his widdle bawance!
Yes, yes, we'll get right on that. Well, g'night!
Sorry, Spike, but I have to convince the Princess that Nightmare Moon is coming, and we're running out of time! I just need to be alone so I can study without a bunch of crazy ponies trying to make friends all the time. Now, where's the light?
Very surprised. Libraries are supposed to be quiet.
No! All the ponies in this town are crazy! Do you know what time it is?!
Ugh, here I thought I'd have time to learn about the Elements of Harmony but, silly me, all this ridiculous friend-making has kept me from it! "Legend has it that on the longest day of the thousandth year, the stars will aid in her escape, and she will bring about everlasting night." I hope the Princess was right... I hope it really is just an old pony tale...
This can't be good.
Oh no... Nightmare Moon!
I did. And I know who you are. You're the Mare in the Moon <U+0096> Nightmare Moon!
"Elements of Harmony, see 'Mare in the Moon'"?
She will bring about nighttime eternal.
It's imperative that the princess is told right away.
I knew she would wanna take immediate action.
All the ponies in this town are crazy!
I hope the Princess was right.
Oh no. Nightmare Moon!
You've been up all night, Spike. You are a baby dragon after all. Elements, elements, elements... Ugh! How can I stop Nightmare Moon without the Elements of Harmony?
I read all about the prediction of Nightmare Moon. Some mysterious objects called the Elements of Harmony are the only things that can stop her, but I don't know what they are, where to find them; I don't even know what they do!
How did you find that?!
Oh. There are six Elements of Harmony, but only five are known: Kindness, Laughter, Generosity, Honesty and Loyalty. The sixth is a complete mystery. It is said, the last known location of the five elements was in the ancient castle of the royal pony sisters. It is located in what is now--
Not so fast. Look, I appreciate the offer, but I'd really rather do this on my own.
So, none of you have been in here before?
What's that supposed to mean?
Applejack! What do I do?
Are you crazy?
That's not true!
Yaaah! Phew-wah!
Yes, Rainbow, I was there, and I'm very grateful, but we gotta- A manticore!
We've gotta get past him!
Rainbow!
How did you know about the thorn?
That ancient ruin could be right in front of our faces and we wouldn't even know it.
Pinkie, what are you doing?! Run!
Tell me she's not...
Excuse me, sir. Why are you crying?
Rarity, what are you-
Oh, Rarity, your beautiful tail...
We can cross now. Let's go. Ah!
There it is, the ruin that holds The Elements of Harmony. We made it!
We're almost there. Whoa!
Rainbow, what's taking so long? Oh no. Rainbow! Don't listen to them.
Whoa.
The Elements of Harmony, we've found them. Careful, careful!
The book said: when the five are present, a spark will cause the sixth Element to be revealed.
I'm not sure, but I have an idea. Stand back. I don't know what will happen.
Aah!
The Elements!
Hmph!
Just one spark. Come on, come on. Aah!
But... where's the sixth Element?!
You think you can destroy The Elements of Harmony just like that? Well, you're wrong, because the spirits of The Elements of Harmony are right here.
Applejack, who reassured me when I was in doubt, represents the spirit of... honesty! Fluttershy, who tamed the manticore with her compassion, represents the spirit of... kindness! Pinkie Pie, who banished fear by giggling in the face of danger, represents the spirit of... laughter! Rarity, who calmed a sorrowful serpent with a meaningful gift represents the spirit of... generosity! And Rainbow Dash, who could not abandon her friends for her own heart's desire represents the spirit of... loyalty! The spirits of these five ponies got us through every challenge you threw at us.
But it did! A different kind of spark. I felt it the very moment I realized how happy I was to hear you, to see you, how much I cared about you. The spark ignited inside me when I realized that you all... are my friends! You see, Nightmare Moon, when those Elements are ignited by the... the spark, that resides in the heart of us all, it creates the sixth element: the element of... magic!
Princess Celestia.
But... you told me it was all an old pony tale.
That's just it. Just when I learned how wonderful it is to have friends, I have to leave them.
Oh thank you, Princess Celestia! I'll study harder than ever before.
No problem at all, Applejack. I'm glad the goal is lunchtime. All this hard work is making me hungry.
Ooh-wee, Spike. You've been lounging on my back all morning while we worked.
Eh, I guess we better get some food.
Oh Spike, that looks delicious.
Spike.
It's a letter from Princess Celestia.
Wow, great! I've never been to the gala. Have you, Spike?
Aw, come on Spike. A dance would be nice.
Oh, well in that case, would you like to--
Yeah, but--
Girls, these are my tickets, I'll decide who gets it, thank you very much. Whoever has the best reason to go should get the ticket, don't you think?
Oh my, those were all pretty good reasons, aren't they? Listen to that, I am starving. I don't know about you, but I can't make important decisions on an empty stomach, so I'll, uh, think about it over lunch and get back to you two, okay?
I don't know Spike, but I really can't think straight when I'm hungry, so where should we eat?
Um, actually--
Uh--
Uh, listen guys, I haven't decided who to give the extra ticket to.
Gee, Fluttershy, it sounds... beautiful...?
Rainbow Dash! Were you following me?
Applejack, were you following me too?
QUIET!
Girls, there's no use in arguing.
Eh! This is my decision, and I'm gonna make it on my own, and I certainly can't think straight with all this noise... not to mention hunger. Now go on, shoo.
And don't worry, I'll figure this out... somehow.
I CAN'T DECIDE!
Oh. I would love a daffodil and daisy sandwich.
What do you think, Spike?
I mean about the Gala and the ticket and who I should take.
Spike, listen. How do I choose? And when I do choose, will the other four be mad at me? I mean, I could give up my ticket and give away two, but that would still leave three disappointed ponies. What if I--
Oh thank you. This looks so good. I'm sure everything will be much clearer once I eat.
It's not raining... What's going on?
Rainbow Dash, what are you doing?
Rainbow, you're not trying to get extra consideration for the extra ticket by doing me extra special favors, are you?
Uh-huh.
Rainbow, I am not comfortable accepting unwanted favors, so I'd appreciate it if you close up that rain cloud right now.
No, really?
Heh heh, oops, sorry.
Uh...
Ugh, Rarity, ow, this really isn't fixing it. I mean, thank you but, ooh, that's too tight.
Uh, yeah, it is kinda pretty, isn't it?
Oh, Spike.
Wait, the Grand--
I see what's going on. You're just buttering me up so I give you the extra ticket. Well it's not gonna work. You're going to have to wait for my decision just like everyone else. Now if you'll excuse me, I've been trying all day just to get some lunch.
You've got to be kidding me!
No. No. I don't know who I'm giving the ticket to, and all these favors aren't making it any easier to decide. In fact, I'm less sure now than I was this morning. Ugh!
Ugh, I never thought being showered with favors would be so aggravating.
Fluttershy, not you too?
It's summer.
You're not doing this for the ticket, are you?
No, no, no! Well, this was all very nice of you and Angel, but I'm not accepting any extra favors until I've made my final decision, so I'm going to have to ask you to leave.
Pinkie...
Pinkie.
Pinkie!
PIIINKIIIE!!
At least the other ponies tried to be subtle about the ticket.
We're... gonna... run!
I didn't even know it was gonna happen. Now quick, lock the doors. Yaaaargh! I can't decide, I just can't decide. It's important to all of you and I just can't stand to disappoint any of you, and giving me gifts and doing me favors won't make any difference, because you're all my friends and I wanna make you all happy and I can't, I just can't!
Spike, take down a note. Dear Princess Celestia,
I've learned that one of the joys of friendship is sharing your blessings, but when there's not enough blessings to go around, having more than your friends can make you feel pretty awful. So, though I appreciate the invitation, I will be returning both tickets to the Grand Galloping Gala.
If my friends can't all go, I don't wanna go either.
Nope. I've made up my mind. Spike, you can send the letter now.
It's okay, girls. I couldn't possibly enjoy myself without my best friends there with me, so I would rather not go at all.
A letter from the princess? That was fast.
Now we can all go.
Pinkie Pie, are you crazy?! Run!
We all ready?
Is Applejack all set?
Welcome, everypony! Today we are here to honor a pony we can always count on to help in matters great and small. A pony whose contributions to--
Exactly. And...
What does that have to do with Applejack?
Oh-kay, that's great. Now if I could just make a point without being inter--
--rupted.
Anyone else? Anyone? No? Well then, as I was trying to say... Urgh! Never mind.
Okay. Well, thank you Applejack for saving us from that scary stampede, and always being there for everypony.
Was it just me, or did Applejack seem a little--
Hmm.
What on Earth is that pony doing?
Hey Applejack!
Applejack.
Applejack. AppleJACK!
What is all this?
Applewhat season?
But why are you doing it all alone?
What about all those relatives I've met when I first came to Ponyville? Can't they help?
Fine.
I just did. Applejack, you don't look so good.
Do you... want some help?
But there's no way you can do it all on your own.
Uhm... no?
Can I help you?
Applejack?
Applejack, can we talk? Applejack, can we talk?
No. Can we talk?
No! I need to talk to you.
I need to talk to you!
Rainbow Dash dropped in to see me today.
Yes, except that she crashed onto my balcony after you launched her into the air.
Because you're working too hard and you need help.
HELP! You need HELP!
Ugh.
We came as soon as we heard.
Oh no! What happened?
Applejack.
Applejack, we need to talk.
Not to upset your applecart, but you need help.
Here, let me help.
AJ, think you're beating a dead... tree.
Actually, Applejack, I had something else to talk to you about. I just came back from Ponyville Urgent Care and--
But if you'd just let me help--
Ugh. That pony is stubborn as a mule.
No offense.
I don't get it.
All right. Enough is enough.
All right, Applejack. Your applebucking hasn't just caused you problems, it's over-propelled Pegasus', practically poisoned plenty of ponies, and terrorized bushels of brand new bouncing baby bunnies. I don't care what you say, you. Need. Help.
Applejack. Applejack.
Oh, good, you're okay. Now Applejack, I completely respect the Apple family ways. You're always there to help anypony in need, so maybe you can put a little of your stubborn pride aside and allow your friends to help you.
I am not taking "no" for an answer--what?
Dear Princess Celestia,
My friend Applejack is the best friend a pony could ever have, and she's always there to help anypony. The only trouble is, when she needs help, she finds it hard to accept it, so while friendship is about giving of ourselves to friends, it's also about accepting what our friends have to offer.
A bit?
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. Phew.
Isn't she right up there?
Hmm?
So Pinkie Pie, are you sure that this friend of Rainbow Dash is really so mean?
You know what I think, Pinkie Pie.
Well, I think... you're jealous.
Well, yes. Jealous. Listen Pinkie, I don't want to upset you, but just because Rainbow Dash has another friend doesn't make Gilda a grump. I mean, perhaps it's you, Pinkie, who needs to improve her attitude.
You've met Gilda, right? What's she like?
Why don't we let Gilda blow out the candles, Spike? She is the guest of honor after all.
Spike.
Wow, what was that about?
Hey Pinkie. Sorry I accused you of misjudging Gilda. Looks like I'm the one who misjudged you.
Dearest Princess Celestia,
Okay, here goes.
Sorry, Romeo. As attractive and enticing as you look, it's just for practice, and it's gotta go.
True, for ponies whose talents are for things like cooking or singing or math. But what if a unicorn's special talent is magic?
Oh, Spike, stop. I'm sure there are lots of ponies right here in Ponyville that know just as much magic as me.
Really?
Where is this unicorn?
There's nothing wrong with being talented, is there?
Spike! Shhh!
You see the way they reacted to Trixie? I don't want anyone thinking I'm a show-off.
There's no way I'm going to use my magic now, Spike. Especially since<U+0097>
I<U+0097> I<U+0097>
Uh...
Nothing.
What do you mean? I'm nothing special.
I'm not better than anyone.
Who, me? I'm just your run-of-the-mill citizen of Ponyville. No powerful magic here. I, uh... I think I hear my laundry calling. Sorry, gotta go.
Didn't you see how they hated Trixie's bragging, Spike? If I go out there and show off my magic, I run the risk of losing them as friends.
No, Spike, it's exactly the same.
I don't want to be seen as a bragger like Trixie.
Uh. Please, Spike, I said no!
I already told you, Spike, I don't wanna show up Trixie!
Uh, is that what I think it is?
What's going on?
You what!?!
I'm sorry. Please, please don't hate me.
Well, I know how much you all hated Trixie's showing off with her magic tricks, and I just thought--
So, you don't mind my magic tricks?
You are?
That's what I was doing when you came looking for me. I was so intrigued by Trixie's bragging that I was compelled to do a little reading up on them.
That wasn't an ursa major. It was a baby, an ursa minor.
And it wasn't rampaging. It was just cranky because someone woke it up.
You don't wanna know.
Just let her go. Maybe someday she'll learn her lesson. Now, about you two.
For starters, you can clean up this mess. And... What do you think, Spike? Should I give them number twenty five?
I think you're right.
Dear Princess Celestia,
I have learned a very valuable lesson about friendship: I was so afraid of being thought of as a show-off that I was hiding a part of who I am. My friends helped me realize that it's okay to be proud of your talents, and there are times when it's appropriate to show them off... Especially when you're standing up for your friends.
Well, yeah, but it's nothing to brag about. So, uh, how did it go with Rarity?
You know, Spike, that mustache has nothing to do with who you really are. Maybe you should just try being yourself.
Uh, not this again!
Listen up! Smoke is spreading over all of Equestria.
But don't worry, I've just received a letter from Princess Celestia informing me that it is not coming from a fire.
It's coming from a dragon.
Sleeping.
According to Princess Celestia, he's taking a nap. His snoring is what's causing all this smoke.
We need to encourage him to take a nap somewhere else. Princess Celestia has given us this mission, and we must not fail. If we do, Equestria will be covered in smoke for the next one hundred years.
All right everypony, I need you to gather supplies quickly. We've got a long journey ahead of us. Let's meet back here in less than an hour.
All right girls, listen up. I'm mapping out the fastest route, but we've all got to keep a good pace if we expect to make it up the mountain by nightfall.
The dragon is in that cave at the very top.
Uh-huh. Well, we could go this way.
Uh-huh. No, we want to avoid that.
Uh-huh.
Wait! You have to come! Your way with wild animals will surely come in handy.
Oh, and don't worry about your little friends in the meadow. Spike's got it covered while you're gone.
Oh, she's just a little nervous. Once we get going, I'm sure she'll be fine.
All right girls, move out!
That is what it sounds like when a dragon snores.
Girls! This is no laughing matter! Fluttershy, you're the expert on wild creatures. What do you think the dragon will be like? Fluttershy?
Uh, we don't have time for this. What are you doing?
Your turn, Fluttershy.
Come on, Fluttershy, we should be much farther along by now.
We don't have time for this.
You've got it.
Just don't look down.
Let's keep it down. According to my map, we're entering an avalanche zone. The smallest peep could cause a huge rock slide.
Shhh!
Oh no! Help! Ooh!
Thanks to you I am.
Yeah, we'll just have to climb over.
We're about to find out. We're here. Rainbow Dash, you'll use your wings to clear the smoke.
Rarity and Pinkie Pie, you'll create a diversion to distract the dragon if things get a little hairy in there.
Applejack, you're ready with the apples in case he decides to attack. But it shouldn't come to that, because Fluttershy will do what she needs to do to wake him up, and between the two of us, we should be able to get him to understand why he needs to go. Is everypony ready?
Okay then, we're goin' in. So, what is the best way to wake up a sleeping dragon without upsetting him? Fluttershy? Oh, come on! Come on! We have to do this! Now! Every second longer that dragon sleeps is another acre of Equestria that is covered in smoke. Ooh!
What?
But Fluttershy. You have a wonderful talent dealing with all kinds of animals.
But, if you're so afraid of dragons, why didn't you say something before we came all the way up here?
Oh, Fluttershy.
I'm goin' in. He... probably just doesn't realize what he's doing... right?
Mr. Dragon.
Excuse me.
Mr. Dragon.
Oh, good, you're awake. Please allow me to introduce myself. My name is Twilight--
Augh! Puh! Sparkle, and my friends and I are residents here in Equestria. Ponyville, to be exact. We've come here to ask that you find another spot to take your nap. It's just that you seem to be doing an awful lot of snoring, and every time you do you send out a terrible cloud of smoke. Equestria simply can't survive a hundred years in a dark haze. You understand, don't you?
You mean... getting rid of that dragon?
Rainbow, no!
You did it! I knew you could do it.
Spike, take a letter.
Dear Princess Celestia,
I am happy to report that the dragon has departed our fair country, and that it was my good friend, Fluttershy, who convinced him to go. This adventure has taught me to never lose faith in your friends. They can be an amazing source of strength, and can help you overcome even your greatest fears.
Applejack! Rarity! Applejack! Rarity!
Come inside girls, quick.
It is if you have a magical lightning rod protecting your home like I do. Come on in!
Some storm, huh? The Pegasus ponies sure have outdone themselves this time. I hope you and Applejack don't have any trouble getting home.
Well, you're welcome to stay if need be. Spike is away in Canterlot on royal business. I'm home all alone tonight. You and Applejack should totally sleep over! We'll have a slumber party! I've always wanted one of those.
My own personal copy. It's a fantastic reference guide. You should see the table of contents. I've been waiting for a chance to use it, and today is the day! This is gonna be so great!
We're giving each other makeovers! Eee-hee! We have to do it, it says so in the book.
Hurray slumber party!
Hee-hee! Isn't this exciting? We'll do everything by the book, and that will make my slumber party officially fun.
This is going to be the bestest slumber party ever! Yay!
This is so awesome! Makeovers, check. Ooh, it says here we have to tell ghost stories. Who wants to go first?
I've got one! This story is called The Legend of The Headless Horse. It was a dark and stormy night, just like this one. And three ponies were having a slumber party, just like this one...
...and just when the last pony thought she was safe, there, standing right behind her, just inches away was--The Headless Horse!
Ghost story, check. Now, who wants s'mores?
Ooo!
S'mores, check. Now the next item of fun we have to do is Truth or Dare.
Um, I don't think this is how the game's supposed to work. You have to give an honest answer to any question or do whatever anypony dares you to do.
You have to. It's the rule.
Um, do I ever get a turn?
I, uh, I think we should check off Truth or Dare and move on. Let's see what our next fun-fun-fun thing is, shall we? Hm, what does this mean? Pillow fight?
Oh, I get it! Pillow, fight! Fun! Ugh. Ah. Uh, girls? Maybe we should take it down a notch?
Maybe we should just call it a night and get some sleep?
Enough! It says right here that the number one thing you're supposed to do at a slumber party is have fun, and thanks to you two I can't check that off!
I hope you're happy, both of you. You've ruined my very first slumber party. The makeover, the s'mores, Truth or Dare, the pillow fight... I mean, is there anything else that could possibly go wrong?
Sorry I asked.
It's... Well, it's not okay. There's a giant tree branch in the middle of my bedroom, and the book doesn't say anything about having a giant tree branch at your slumber party. Or at least I haven't found that entry yet. Ooh... ah!
Baking... BFFs... Brothers... There's nothing in here about branches.
Well, they do have a section about backyard slumber parties. Is that what we're doing right now? Does this count as camping?
Oh, pretty! Where did these come from? They're not in the book either.
Nope.
No! Only three of your twenty questions left!
Why? Is it too cold in here for you? I can turn up the heat.
Oh! No. And that technically counted as a question, so only two more left!
That's it!
No. It's that. But it was just so nice to see you two finally getting along, I wanted you to be able to win together.
See? We could have been having fun like this all along.
I declare my first slumber party a success!
Have fun, check.
Dear Princess Celestia,
It's hard to believe that two ponies who seem to have so little in common could ever get along. But I found out that if you embrace each other's differences, you just might be surprised to discover a way to be friends after all.
So, who's up for another slumber party tomorrow night? Ugh. How about a week from Thursday? Oh, how about two weeks from Saturday? A month from now?
Wow, what a gorgeous day!
I bet all of Ponyville is going to be out enjoying the sunshine. What? Where is everypony?
Not that I know of.
Not more than usual.
Uh... not very likely.
Spike! There are no zombie ponies. Pinkie, what are you doing here alone in the dark?
Okay then, what are you all doing here in the dark?
Well, I saw her glance this way...
... And then a bunch of you flip out for no good reason.
Will you cut that out?
She's a zebra.
A zebra, and her stripes aren't a fashion choice Rarity, they're what she was born with.
Well, she's probably not from here, and she's not a pony. My books say that zebras come from a faraway land. But I've never seen her in Ponyville. Where does she live?
Spike!
Wow. Catchy.
This is all just a lot of gossip and rumors. Now tell me; what exactly have you actually seen Zecora do?
Oooooh.
Oh, my.
Good gracious! Okay, I'm sorry. But how is any of this bad? Maybe she comes to town to visit?
And maybe she's not lurking by the stores, maybe she's going to them, lurk free, to do some shopping?
I am sure there is an explanation for everything Zecora does. And if anypony here were actually brave enough to approach her, she would find out the truth.
You ponies are being ridiculous!
Pinkie, I eat hay; you eat hay!
Spike, you stay here in case Apple Bloom comes back.
Oh brother.
You guys, there's no such thing as curses!
My magic, real magic, comes from within. It's a skill you're born with. Curses are artificial, fake magic. It's conjured with potions and incantations; all smoke and mirrors meant to scare. But curses have no real power, they're just an old pony tale.
Ugh... what a dream... Curses, schmurses. Whoa! Maybe Zecora cursed my hair. Or she cursed my horn!
No no no no no! None of these books have a cure! Ugh! There has to be a real reason for this! An illness? An allergy?!
I said a real reason. Something that points to something real.
"Supernaturals"? Spike, the word supernatural refers to things like ghosts and spirits and zombies, which are as make-believe as curses. This book is just a bunch of hooey!
Pinkie? What happened?
But Fluttershy... seems just fine!
Fluttershy? Are you okay? Is there something wrong with you? Would you care to tell us? So... you're not going to tell us? Yes you're not, or yes you will?
This is no joke, Spike. Now start looking for more books so I can find a cure!
It's not a curse!
It's not a hex either!
... or sat on her?
Apple Bloom is gone too!
Well we better go find them. Come on girls, let's go.
C'mon girls. We've got to get to Zecora's. Hurry!
Oh Pinkie. Doesn't sound anything like your song.
Scary looking masks, confusing incantations, and a great big bubbling cauldron? Everything is pointing to Zecora being... bad. Or... what if Zecora is just making soup?
Or... what if she's making Apple Bloom soup?!
What if she's making Apple Bloom soup?!
What have you done with Apple Bloom?
We're onto you Zecora. I didn't want to believe that you cursed us, but the evidence is overwhelming!
You ruined my horn!
Where is Apple Bloom!?
Because Zecora is an evil enchantress who cursed us and was gonna cook you up into soup!
Apple Bloom, sweetie. You can't just stand there and tell me this isn't a curse.
I think what she's saying is that when we ran in to save Apple Bloom, we ran into the poison joke. All our problems are just little jokes it played on us.
But the cauldron... The Apple Bloom soup?
But I tried to find a cure in all my books and couldn't find anything. What book has this natural remedy?
Actually, I do have this book, but I didn't look inside because the title was so... Weird. Supernaturals: Natural Remedies and Cure-alls That Are Simply Super. I...I... I'm so sorry, Zecora. I had the answer the whole time, if only I had bothered to look inside.
Zecora? Would you be kind enough to mix up another batch of the herbal bath?
Oh, well... I think we can help you with that.
Daisy, we need to talk.
Dear Princess Celestia,
My friends and I all learned an important lesson this week: Never judge a book by its cover. Someone may look unusual, or funny, or scary. But you have to look past that and learn who they are inside. Real friends don't care what your "cover" is; it's the "contents" of a pony that count. And a good friend, like a good book, is something that will last forever.
Oh! Hurry up, Spike! This place isn't gonna clean itself.
Princess Celestia will be here tomorrow!
There's nothing casual about a visit from royalty. I want this place to be spotless, and you've barely made a dent in the clutter.
Everything's got to be perfect. No time for fooling around.
Great idea. You clean, I'll go see how everyone else's preparations are coming.
What happened to the rest of her name?
You can't hang a banner that says "Welcome Princess Celest". Take it down and try again.
That looks perfect. Keep up the good work.
Hello, Mr. and Mrs. Cake. How's the banquet coming?
Pinkie! What are you doing? Those sweets are supposed to be for the princess.
They're amazing. What are they?
I'll take one off your hooves. I've never seen anything so... adorable. Besides, it'll be nice to have a companion for Spike so he won't bother me so much while I'm studying.
A para-what?
A what?
Ahhh, typical Pinkie.
Wow. Rarity, those outfits are gorgeous.
The better question is, where did they come from? I only had one a minute ago.
The decorations, the banquet, I really hope everything comes together in time for tomorrow.
Oh, what's there to worry about?
Spike! Wake up! What happened?
Where did they come from?
The princess will be here in a few hours.
Spike, help me round up these little guys.
Fluttershy knows everything about animals, I'm sure she can tell us how to stop them from multiplying.
...or not.
Ugh, do something Fluttershy, can't you control them?
If we can't get them under control before the princess arrives, it'll be a total disaster.
I got it! Nopony can herd like Applejack.
Pinkie!
You're telling me. The princess could arrive at any moment.
Maracas? Pinkie, we've got much bigger problems than missing maracas.
We did it. Nice work, Applejack.
Now let's get back and clean up the mess they made before the princess arrives.
Okay, everyone knows what to do, right? We gotta work extra hard to make up for lost time.
Where did they come from?
We don't have time to keep rounding up these things. What do we do now?
Way to go, Rainbow Dash!
Pinkie Pie, what have you done?
Will you forget about your silly instruments for one second? You're ruining our efforts to save Ponyville.
We've gotta do something. I got it! I'll cast a spell to make them stop eating all the food.
Zecora, these little guys are devouring Ponyville, and the princess is on her way. Can you help us, please?
I don't know! Is it?
Oh no, here she comes.
Okay, here's the plan. Rainbow Dash, you distract them.
Good. Everyone else, we need to build an exact copy of Ponyville right over there. We've got less than a minute. Zecora was right, we're doomed. Oh no, the princess's procession is here. It's all over!
Pinkie? We're in the middle of a crisis here. This is no time for your... nonsense?
Look.
Hello, princess.
So... how was the trip? Hit much traffic?
Parade? Oh. Yes, the parade.
An... infestation?
Trouble? What trouble?
My... report?
Actually, I have. I've learned that sometimes the solution to your problems can come from where you least expect it. It's a good idea to stop and listen to your friends' opinions and perspectives...
Even when they don't always seem to make sense.
Thank you, princess.
Emergency in Fillydelphia.
I think the princess can handle it.
We know, Pinkie Pie, and we're sorry we didn't listen.
You're a great friend, even if we don't always understand you.
You saved my reputation with Princess Celestia, and more importantly, you saved Ponyville.
...Or not.
Spike, wake up. Wake up, wake up, it's Winter Wrap Up day!
Winter Wrap Up!
Spike, the first day of spring is tomorrow, so everypony in Ponyville needs to clean up winter. Now help me get ready.
Okay, let's see: scarf, check; saddle, check; boots, check; Spike refusing to get up and going back to sleep, check. It's a good thing I'm so organized, I'm ready. Bright and early. Oh... maybe a little too early.
Those must be the team vests Rarity designed. Blue for the weather team, green for the plant team, and tan for the animal team. I wonder which team vest I'll be wearing.
Oh, this is so exciting.
Oh gosh, where should I go? I'm not sure where I fit in. What exactly does everypony do?
The time has come to welcome spring And all things warm and green But it's also time to say goodbye It's winter we must clean How can I help? I'm new, you see What does everypony do? How do I fit in without magic? I haven't got a clue!
Now that I know what they all do I have to find my place And help with all of my heart Tough task ahead I face How will I do without my magic Help the Earth pony way I wanna belong so I must Do my best today, Do my best today!
'Cause tomorrow spring is here 'Cause tomorrow spring is here 'Cause tomorrow spring is here!
Everypony belongs to a team. What should I do? Where should I go?
Rainbow Dash!
What are you doing?
Oh, can I help? How about if I help clear out the clouds?
Right. No wings.
Great, now what do we do?
Come on Spike, this is serious business. Winter needs to be wrapped up, and I'm determined to do my part. Somehow.
Rarity, please tell me there's something, anything I can help you with.
Birds' nests?
Wow, Rarity, that one's really beautiful.
Would I? Yes! Where do I begin?
There! It looks just like... yours. Oh my.
Hw...
Wow, Pinkie Pie, you're quite the skater. Probably the best skater I've ever seen.
How clever. When the thick ice begins to melt, it'll break along the lines. Well, you sure have a lot of work ahead of you, there's quite a few lakes in Ponyville.
Would I?
Okay.
Uh... maybe on second thought.
Oh no, whoa, wow...
Yaaaaa!
Really?
Mm-hmm, yeah, I guess.
Well... I'm pretty good with little animals. Yeah, I'll go help her.
Yaaaaaa!
Awww, how cute.
Well, I'll help, Fluttershy.
Okay, let's start there.
Hello? Wake up little friends, wherever you are. Spring is coming. I wonder which cute little furry creatures I've awoken.
Waaa! Snakes! Snakes! Ugh! Ugh!
All this Winter Wrap Up stuff is a lot harder than it looks.
No, Spike, I have to do it the traditional way. Ponyville has never needed magic to wrap up winter.
Hey, Applejack. How's everything going?
Well, I'd like to help.
Just give me a chance.
I could use a come-to-life spell. Hwww... Here goes...
Uh-oh. Slow down. Slow down!
I'm a winter mess up.
Thanks a lot for making me feel so much better.
Did she say late?
Spike! Get my checklist and clipboard, STAT!
Stop, everypony!
Stop!
Sorry. I know you all want to complete your jobs on time, but arguing is no way to go about it. What you need is organization, and I'm just the pony for the job.
It was a team effort.
Gosh, I don't even know what to say. Thank you, everypony.
Dear Princess Celestia,
Winter Wrap Up was one of the most special things I've ever been a part of here in Ponyville. It helped me to learn we all have hidden talents, and if we're patient and diligent, we're sure to find them, and as always, with good friendship and teamwork, ponies can accomplish anything. How's that, Spike? Spike?
Whoa, what's been going on in here?
Nnnno thank you... not that they don't look, heh, delicious.
What's the matter?
Uhhh... I don't follow. How can I help you?
Oh no, Apple Bloom. A cutie mark is something a pony has to discover for herself.
I'm sorry, but-
All right, all right!
I'm sorry, sweetie, but I told you-
Told you that not even magic can make a cutie mark appear before its time.
I'm sure it won't be as bad as all that.
I for one think you are three very lucky fillies.
They still get to experience the thrill of discovering who they are, and what they're meant to be.
Dearest Princess Celestia,
So you two are doing what, now?
And I'm here to...?
Uh, Spike, who are you talking to?
Ready. Set. Go!
Time, Spike?
Ready. Set. Go!
Rainbow Dash wins the barrel lead!
Go!
Go!
Rainbow Dash wins the bronco-buck.
Who are you talking to?
95, 96, 97, 98, 99... a hundred!
All right, you two. This is the final event. Give it all you've got.
Why are you so excited about the race? It's only for ponies.
Sorry, Spike. I guess that job's already taken.
I'm racing.
I'm not joking.
I am not an egghead, I am well-read.
Well, no, but I do know a lot about running.
Books. I've read several on the subject.
Scoff if you must, Rainbow. But the Running of the Leaves is a Ponyville tradition, and since I'm here to learn, I've decided I should experience it myself.
I know, it's beautiful, isn't it?
She did not.
She did not, and if you slowed down and looked where you're going, like me, you'd see that you tripped over a rock.
Just be careful!
Don't you ponies ever look where you're going? You tripped on a stump. See?
Rainbow, Applejack would never cheat. It was just an accident.
Remember, Rainbow, this is just a game.
Oh my, Whitetail Wood is just lovely. Hey, Rainbow, shouldn't you be up ahead?
Except that the other racers just passed you.
Forgive me, girls. I know I'm not an athlete, but shouldn't the Running of the Leaves actually involve running?
Oh no, but I did get fifth place, which is rather good considering I've never run a race before.
Exactly. I paced myself, just like my book said. Then at the end, when all the other ponies were worn out, I sprinted to the finish.
Well, with all your horsing around, it was quite easy.
It's important to remember that the friendship is always more important than the competition.
Shh... Can't you see Rarity is trying to concentrate?
Looks like a dress.
Oh, so very sorry to trouble you, Rarity, but I need a quick favor. Could you please fix the button for me? It's my dress for the Grand Galloping Gala.
Oh, that's really sweet of you to offer, Rarity, but I can't let you do that. It would be so much work. This dress is fine.
But...
Well, in that case... Thank you for your generosity, Rarity. Knowing your handiwork, I'm sure it will be absolutely beautiful.
What a great idea! If you're sure you can handle it.
Wow... They're...
Yes! Something.
They're very nice...
I guess what we're all saying is that they're just not what we had in mind.
Well, in that case... Thank you again, Rarity.
Now, the stars on my belt need to be technically accurate. Orion has three stars on his belt, not four.
That constellation is Canis Major, not Minor.
Gotta balance style with adherence
Oh my!
Thank you, Rarity.
The bigwig fashion hotshot in Canterlot?
Wow!
Oh dear.
You're not a laughing stock, Rarity...
Shhh! Come on out and talk to us.
Now what do we do?
She only has one cat.
Like we should have let you do for our outfits. Those first dresses you designed were perfect.
Maybe not.
Dear Princess Celestia,
Tuh! Nuh! Uh! Nyuh!
Eyes over here, Spike!
For this to work, it's crucial we keep our concentration totally on the-
Spike! This magic needs our full attention to make it happen. There's no other way!
Ugh, never mind her. She's just being Pinkie Pie.
Pinkie Pie? What in the wide, wide world of Equestria are you up to?
Actually, Pinkie, I haven't the slightest idea.
Oh, Pinkie, it's not gonna rain. Why, there's barely even a cloud in the-ugh!
Of course you did.
Oh, really? Did your Pinkie Sense tell you that, too?
C'mon, Spike, let's continue our practice session where there's a little less commotion.
Oh, come on. She said that something would fall, and a frog just happened to fall right around the same time. A coincidence, nothing else to it.
Oh, Pinkie, please. Nothing else is gonna fa-aaah!
Oh, please.
Honestly, Spike, she did not. Two coincidences in a row like this may be unlikely, but it's still easier to believe than twitchy tails that predict the future.
Oh, wait. Don't tell me you believe in this stuff, too?
Huh? A bath? This thing keeps on getting more ridiculous by the minute!
Phhhhft.
Is your knee pinchy now?
How come your knee didn't get pinchy?! That isn't just scary, it's downright dangerous!
Okay, okay... I get it.
Well, I still don't believe all this... "special power" stuff. It's just a bunch of mumbo-jumbo.
Huge! For one thing, magic is something you study and practice. It only happens when you decide to do it, and it's meant to make something specific that you choose to happen, happen. With you, uh, it makes no sense at all!
Combos?
Yeah, sure.
Ugh!
Ughhh... You said that combo meant "beautiful rainbow".
I don't believe this.
Hmm...
Okay. Now when you get another twitch, we'll have all kinds of scientific information.
Any twitches yet?
Now? Anything?
Are you kidding me?! After a whole day of nonstop twitching, now that I've got you all hooked up, you're not getting a single one?
That makes no sense!
I will not believe in anything I cannot explain.
Oh my gosh, what? What is it?!
Urgh... You know what? Just forget it! I don't need to know if this is real or not. I don't need to understand it! I don't even care!
Rrrrgh... Did you two plan this?
Urgh! This is ridiculous. This can't be happening. This makes no sense. I have to figure this out.
Ah!
Honestly, Spike, don't you know better than to sneak up on ponies?
No! I'm doing scientific research. I'm observing Pinkie Pie, scientific name: Pinkius Pieicus, in its natural habitat.
There's something fishy going on with the whole twitchy prediction thing, and I'm getting to the bottom of it. So, shh. Come on, Pinkius Pieicus is on the move.
Hm... Itchy nose...
Aha! That makes no sense. See? She's hiding like something's about to fall from the sky, but a twitchy tail means something's gonna fall from the sky, not an itchy nose.
This proves...
...perhaps conclusively, that<U+0097>
Spike! Where are you going? I'm trying to teach you the value of scientific<U+0097>
Smelling a flower.
Probably that the flower smells good. Wait. I'm getting something. Ear flop, eye flutter, knee twitch.
Oh-ho. You really, really believe this stuff, don't you? Here, let me show you there's nothing to be afraid of. You see? I promise you there's nothing to fear from that<U+0097> Wo-o-ah! Ow! Ugh! Ow! Ow!
Okay, take this down: twitchy tail.
Hush, Spike! We can't let Pinkie know we're here, remember?
Ugh, Spike honestly, you're overreact<U+0097>
Ugh!
You mean you knew all along?! Why didn't you tell me?
Urgh!
Calm down, everypony. All we know right now is that Pinkie Pie just got a case of the shivers. That's all.
I don't. I just want to be there to see the look on Pinkie's face when we find out nothing's wrong.
Cold? Need a jacket or something?
Will you two stop? She's fine, I'm sure of it.
Sorry, I know it's not nice to gloat but... Aha! I told you there was nothing to worry about, and I was right. Pinkie Pie said whatever she was shuddering about was a doozy, and and the only doozy here is how right I am.
Pinkie's made a lot of predictions today but ugh, what is that smell? But what we've shown here is that there's no point in believing in anything you can't see for yourself.
I see it... But I don't believe it!
Pinkie! Come on!
Everypony up that hill!
Coming, Spike! Hang on!
I think we're gonna make it.
Ugh, he'll be up here in no time! Quick, one at a time, cross!
No.
No!
No small rodents of any kind!
Oh... What would a brave pony like Rainbow Dash do? Chaaarge!
I'll never make it!
I will not!
Y-ugh! No! Oh no! Noooo! WA-A-A-AH! Ugh! Blegh!
I don't know how it happened; coincidence, dumb luck, or what, but you said there'd be a doozy here at Froggy Bottom Bogg, and I'd say we just had ourselves one heck of a doozy. I mean that hydra<U+0097>
Pinkie?
Huh?
Huh? But I<U+0097> WHAT?! The hydra wasn't the doozy?! How could it not be the doozy?! What could be doozier than that?!
Rrrgh... Ooh... I give up...
The fight. I can't fight it anymore. I don't understand how, why, or what, but Pinkie Sense somehow... makes sense. I don't see how it does, but it just does. Just because I don't understand doesn't mean it's not true.
Eeyup, I guess I do.
What? What is?
Oh, good, Spike, you're here. Take a letter.
Dear Princess Celestia, I'm happy to report that<U+0097> Spike, what have I been saying about focus?
Spike: I know, but I... Well...
What's wrong, Spike? Never thought you'd see me with an umbrella hat on?
Pinkie's tail's a-twitchin'. What else can I do?
I am happy to report that I now realize there are wonderful things in this world you just can't explain, but that doesn't necessarily make them any less true. It just means you have to choose to believe in them, and sometimes it takes a friend to show you the way.
Always your faithful student, Twilight Sparkle.
I wonder what's gonna drop outta the sky this time?
Last one. Thank you so much for helping me clean up all these books, guys. It was a crazy week of studying.
What are you two arguing about?
What's that?
What's a sonic rainboom?
Wow. If you pull that off, you'll win the crown for sure!
Well, guess we better get this cleaned up... again.
Go on what?
Owaa! Ugh. How am I supposed to find a flight spell in this mess?
Here it is! A spell that will allow Earth ponies to fly for three days. Ooh, it looks really difficult... I'm not sure I can do it.
Okay... But who's gonna volunteer to be the test subject?
I think it worked!
I found a spell that makes temporary wings, but it was too difficult to do more than once. So I found an easier spell that lets the rest of us walk on clouds.
Be careful with those wings, Rarity. They're made from gossamer and morning dew, and they're incredibly delicate.
Rarity, we're supposed to be helping Rainbow Dash relax, remember? Put your wings away and stop showing off!
Rainbow Dash, are you okay? You don't look so good.
I loved number seven. Doing fifteen barrel rolls in a row can't be easy.
Oh no! Her wings evaporated into thin air!
Princess.
I did Princess, but I think Rarity learned even more than me.
Hello, Fluttershy.
I'm heading to the Everfree Forest to Zecora's to get some of my favorite tea.
Of course! How about you? What are you doing with the girls?
Wow. Sounds like everypony has their hooves full today. Taking care of those three fillies all by yourself? You sure you can handle it?
What... what happened?
This is gonna make quite a letter to the princess. I was wrong about you. You certainly do know how to handle those girls.
Hmm? How so?
You and Rarity both. Good morning, Rarity.
What is going on here?
Girls, I think you're going about this the wrong way. Instead of trying to do things in areas you're not familiar with, why not try doing things in areas that you already like?
My little ponies! You're missing the point. Think about the things you already enjoy doing. Think about what you're already good at.
"Ghosts, Goblins and Ghoulish Figures"? Good heavens, girls. What do you need a book like this for?
What do you think they're up to?
My little ponies! How are you doing?
Don't worry. You're gonna be amazing. Remember, just stick to what you know best. I can't wait to hear you sing, Sweetie Belle.
Oh?
Oh?
Costumes?
Really, girls? Are you sure...?
Break a le<U+0097>
Uh... good luck!
Congratulations, ponies! Job well done.
Hey, you don't sound too excited.
Oh, girls...
Oh? Tell me. I'd love to make a special report to the Princess.
Yes? And?
Yes? Yes?
And that is...?
One day... One day...
Spike, can you breathe now?
Good. Now tell us what you know.
Creepy guys?
Come on, girls! Let's get started.
Hello?
Puh!
Quick! We gotta get down one before they're all filled up.
Oh, Rarity...
Ooh.
Poor Rarity. What are we gonna do?
Spike, it is very noble of you...
...to sacrifice the gem Rarity gave you.
Applejack!
Um... Which way do we go?
All these tunnels... How are we ever gonna find Rarity?
But Spike, Rarity is the only one who knows how to find gems.
Oh my gosh! You're right! Rarity showed me how she did it a while back. If I can just remember...
We're getting close. I can feel it.
And just what do you think you're doing?
Excuse me?
I can't wait to write to Princess Celestia to tell her what you taught me today.
Just because somepony is ladylike doesn't make her weak. In fact, by using her wits, a seemingly defenseless pony can be the one who outsmarts and outshines them all.
Oh, doesn't that hurt?
I promise.
Give me a break. Everypony already knows how you-
But-
My lips are sealed. Though I'm pretty sure Rarity is gonna pick up on your feelings.
She hardly took any pictures.
Oh, Rarity. I'm so sorry. Is there anything we can do?
I'm sure she just got tied up.
Rarity! Fluttershy is your friend.
You have my word. Losing a friend's trust is the fastest way to lose a friend.
Wow! You look great!
Sorry.
Feel better?
Of course.
I swear.
Cross my heart and hope to fly, stick a cupcake in my Ooowwwww!
Oh, really? Well... If you wanna know the truth, Rarity...
Nothing!
I was just thinking. If you really don't like being a model, you could always quit.
Uhhhhhh!
I guess you're right. You're right. You're right, you're right, you're right!
Don't you see? On her own, Fluttershy could never do something unattractive. But if I used my magic to help her do something unattractive at her next fashion show, no one will ever want her to model again. And if Fluttershy no longer has to be a model, Rarity will no longer have to be jealous of her. And I'll no longer have to keep their secrets! It's the perfect plan! You can't tell anyone about it. Promise me you won't tell anyone?
So you do promise or you don't?
Obviously.
They love you for being you. So all I have to do is make you not be you. Just leave it to me.
Ugh! But Rarity...!
Because you ha...!
Of course she did! Because...!
But... Fluttershy doesn't... Ugh!
Spike has a crush on Rarity!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Being a good friend means being able to keep a secret. But you should never be afraid to share your true feelings with a good friend. Did you get all that, Spike?
You're right. That was wrong of me, and I'm very sorry.
Now will you take down my letter to Princess Celestia?
Oh my goodness...
Uhh... maybe it's time we all got a little shut-eye. We've got a big day ahead of us tomorrow.
What's going on?
Did you say she was a tree?
Ya know she's not a tree, right?
Well that was kind of huffy.
A buffalo stampede!
They're getting awfully close to the train.
And Spike!
Rainbow Dash went after them!
How did you escape from the buffalo?
Look! Both the settlers and the buffalo have good reasons to use this land. There must be something we can do.
We've just got to talk some sense into them before somepony gets hurt. Listen, maybe if you would just reconsider, we<U+0096>
If we could just sit down and talk we could<U+0096>
Why won't anybody be rational and reasonable?!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Friendship is a wondrous and powerful thing. Even the worst of enemies can become friends. You need understanding and compromise. You've got to share. You've got to care.
It's all right, sirs. She's on the list.
I'm so glad you could make it, Fluttershy. It wouldn't be the same without you.
Oh, you and your tender loving care of little animals. I just know Princess Celestia is gonna love that about you. I mean, I hope she will... I mean, of course she will!
Oh, it's not that. I just want the princess to approve of my friends.
And read about you in my letters. But this is the first time she's spent any real time with you. I want everypony to make a good impression.
Oh...
Well, Spike, I don't know for sure how things went with the princess, but at least no big disasters happened.
Hi, Fluttershy! I just wanted to drop by and say thank you so very much for making such a good impression on the princess today... What is Celestia's pet doing here?!
Oh no. Nonononononono! This is bad.
But... but... she doesn't belong to you!
Without telling anypony?! Without asking permission?!
I know you had good intentions, but you have got to return the princess's pet!
It's that dry night air?
Well... day air's even drier. You guards better be on your way if you're gonna find the princess's missing pet. Philomena, was it? Thank you ever so much for keeping me in the loop. Bye! Phew... What are you doing?!
We can't now!
You have no idea what the princess is gonna do if she finds you're the one who took her pet, do you?!
Well... no. But it can't be anything good. She might banish you from Equestria. Or throw you in a dungeon. Or banish you and then throw you in a dungeon in the place that she banishes you to!
Okay. Granted that probably won't happen, but do you wanna take any chances?
That's very noble of you. I'll write to you when you're banished. Unless I'm banished too somewhere there's no post office. Then you'll have to write to me. Deal?
Did you give her any kind of medicine?
Then you have to make her take it. You can't be such a pushover, Fluttershy! You need to show this patient who's the boss. Make her straighten up and fly right!
No excuses!
Done. Okay, what else?
There you go.
Tough love, baby. You want her to get well, don't you?
Next!
One step ahead of you.
What's this soup over here? Smells delicious.
Oh, she'll eat it, all right.
Hey! Where are you going?
Beg your pardon!
Yes, your Majesty, there's been a terrible accident.
No, Princess. Fluttershy didn't know any better. It was my fault.
But you were only trying to help.
Will ya let me do this? She'll go easier on me.
No, it's my fault!
Fluttershy really did do everything she could to try to take care of Philomena for you.
Should I write you a letter about that lesson, Princess?
As a young filly in Canterlot, I always wanted to go to the Summer Sun Celebration, where Princess Celestia raises the sun.
And I saw the most amazing, most wonderful thing I've ever seen.
I poured myself into learning everything I could about magic.
My parents decided to enroll me in Princess Celestia's School for Gifted Unicorns. It was a dream come true! Except for one thing... I had to pass an entrance exam!
I knew it was the most important day of my life, that my entire future would be affected by the outcome of this day and I was about to blow it!
...yesyesyesyes...
...yesyes, yeeees!
Um... yes.
This is uncanny! If that explosion didn't happen when it did, I would have blown my entrance exam. Rainbow Dash, I think you helped me earn my cutie mark too!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Today I learned something amazing. Everypony everywhere has a special magical connection with her friends, maybe even before she's met them. If you're feeling lonely and you're still searching for your true friends, just look up in the sky. Who knows? Maybe you and your future best friends are all looking at the same rainbow.
Just write it, Spike.
This meteor shower tonight's gonna be amazing!
You know, this shower only happens once every 100 years.
We better get a move on!
Spike, did you grab my quill and ink?
Scrolls?
I can see that. Once again you've read my mind, Spike. And that is why you are my number one assistant.
That is why you are my number one assistant.
I said... Come on, let's get going. Wait! I almost forgot! I wanna bring the "Astronomical Astronomer's Almanac to All Things Astronomy".
You know that really old big blue book on stars, moons, planets, the universe...?
Hey! What's taking my number one assistant so long?
I was sure I put the astronomer's guide back. The book would have helped me identify different planets and stars tonight.
Thanks, Spike. You're such a flatterer.
And a number one assistant, right?
Spike, that's enough.
Spike made them. Speaking of, Spike, can you bring us some punch? Spike?
Aww... He's worked himself to the bone.
Goodnight, Spike. Sweet dreams, number one assistant. "The Study of Comets. Comets are small, irregularly shaped bodies that are made of nonvolatile grains and frozen gases. They..."
Huh.<U+00A0>"...have body structures that are fragile and diverse..."
Shoot! Oh... This is a job for Spike. If only he were awake...
Wait! Don't go! Don't be afraid. Thank you for returning my scroll.
Gosh, it's cold tonight. Say, would you like to relax in here and keep me company while I work?
Now, where was I? Oh, yes. "...fragile and diverse with a surrounding cloud of material called a coma, that grows in size and brightness as the comet approaches the sun..."
Spike, don't worry.
It's okay. Owlowiscious did them for you.
He's our new junior assistant. He's gonna help out with your chores so you won't be so tired all the time.
Spike, don't worry. He's just here to help out a little. Now, I have to go out, so why don't you introduce yourself to Owlowiscious? He's in the library.
Replace him? Hah! That's crazy! Spike knows he can't be replaced.
Hey, Spike! Can you fetch me that book called "Two-headed Myth<U+0097>
Thanks, Owlowiscious. Hey, Spike, no worries. Owlowiscious flew up and got the book for me. Oh, and gee! I guess I need "Ferrets of Fairyland" too.
Climb down from there before you fall.
Shoot!
My last writing quill. It's broken.
Spike, wait! Wait!
Oh, Spike. I was calling out for you when you were turning this place upside down. Owlowiscious gave me one of his feathers to use as a quill.
Oh, no no. There are quite a lot of them.
Poor Spike. He'll come around. He's genuinely a good little guy.
Spike. What is this? You said this book was missing. Well, Owlowiscious found it right where it belongs, but like this. How did it get this way?
I've seen a dragon lie. I'm very disappointed in you, Spike.
Spike! I don't know what upsets me more. That you deliberately tried to set up Owlowiscious or that you actually thought this pathetic attempt would work! You've let your jealousy get the best of you, Spike. I am truly disappointed. This is not the Spike I know and love.
Spike! Over here!
Hurry! Hop on! It's too dark! I can't see!
Spike. We were so worried about you. I was so worried about you. Why did you run away?
Spike. Sure, I was disappointed, but you are my number one assistant! And friend. And you always will be. It's just that sometimes I need some help at night. I can't ask you to stay up late. You're a baby dragon and you need your rest. Owls are nocturnal. So I asked Owlowiscious to help. But not to take your place. No one could ever replace you, Spike. Not even when you are being a jealous numbskull.
And I'm sorry too, Spike. I should have been more sensitive.
He forgives you, Spike.
It was your ketchup-covered feet. Owlowiscious discovered your footprints and we followed them all the way to the cave.
I know Princess Celestia will wanna read about what happened today...
Hey, Spike. Why don't you write to Princess Celestia? And tell her what you've learned?
I know. But nothing my number one assistant can't handle.
Oh, Spike.
Oh! Hi, Pinkie Pie...
A blast!
Yah!
Uh, I think I'm gonna pass. Great party though. We should do this again soon.
Oh! Hi, Pinki-
Pardon me?
"You're invited to Gummy's 'after-birthday' party. This afternoon at 3 o'clock."
This afternoon? As in, "this afternoon" this afternoon?
Oh, gosh. I wish I could make it, but I've gotten a bit behind in my studies. I've really gotta hit the books.
Please do.
I'll keep that in mind.
Shh! Is Pinkie Pie around?
Good. I don't wanna her to know anything about this.
I don't think so.
Me too.
Farewell party?
If this is a farewell party, why does the cake I picked up from Sugarcube Corner say "Happy Birthday, Pinkie Pie"?
It's okay, Pinkie Pie. It could have happened to any of us.
Huh?
Dear Princess Celestia,
I am writing to you from the most delightful party. I'm not only having a great time with my friends, but also was given the opportunity to learn a valuable lesson about friendship. Always expect the best from your friends, and never assume the worst. Rest assured that a good friend always has your best interests at heart.
Pinkie! Please stop shouting, I'm trying to concentrate.
Perfect! I'm ready.
All right, Spike.
Thanks. But that's just the start. Fluttershy, did you bring your friends?
You have my word.
Ta-da!
Neat, huh? And don't worry. They'll be mice again at midnight.
Wait! Come back! Those horses were supposed to pull our carriage. How will we get to the Gala?
Oh. Yeah. Right.
Don't worry, Spike. We'll all get to spend some time together.
I can't believe we're finally here. With all that we've imagined, the reality of this night is sure to make this... The Best Night Ever!
At the Gala
At the Gala With the Princess Is where I'm going to be We will talk all about magic and what I've learned and seen It is going to be so special As she takes time just for me
To talk!
Princess Celestia!
Oh, I'm so excited to be here! We have so much to catch up on.
That's just what I was hoping you'd say.
Princess! I've been so excited to spend time with you and...
Looks like getting a chance to talk to the Princess is gonna be a magic trick in itself.
This isn't what I hoped.
No!
...I'm gonna make this...
Well... it can't get any worse.
Um, um, uh... Eugh.
I just hope Princess Celestia isn't upset with us for ruining the Gala.
Pardon me, Princess, but tonight was just awful.
It is?
You're right, Princess. Friends have a way of making even the worst of times into something pretty great.
Yes, Spike. You were right.
Don't worry, everyone. I've learned a new spell that'll fix everything. My fail-safe spell... failed. What do we do?
Hmm, time for plan B. Rainbow, can you corral all those clouds in one corner of the sky? Applejack, I need you to bring those high-strung storm clouds down to Earth.
You see, Spike? You should never give up. There's nothing we can't overcome if we all work together.
Come on, girls. Princess Celestia wants to see us all in Canterlot immediately!
Princess Celestia, we came as fast as we could!
Is this about the weather? And the animals' weird behavior? What's happening out there? Why isn't my magic working? Is there<U+0096>
No longer connected?
But why us? Why don't you<U+0096>
Princess Celestia, you can count on<U+0096>
Don't listen to her, Princess. We'd be honored to use the Elements of Harmony again.
The Elements! They're gone!
You seem to know our strengths too.
Pinkie!
Twists and turns... twists and turns... twists and turns! That's it! I bet Discord hid the Elements in the palace labyrinth!
Thanks, Princess. We won't let you down.
Give us our wings and horns back!
Never fear, girls. We have each other!
All right, girls, let's do this!
Stay calm, girls! Everypony head to the middle as fast as you can, and we'll regroup there!
Applejack! Thank goodness! I thought I heard voices over here. Who were you talking to?
What?
Did Applejack just...? Come on, Twilight! Applejack wouldn't lie.
Pinkie Pie! Are we glad to see you!
Pinkie? What do you suppose has her so upset? It's not like her.
Weird. Better pick up the pace before the stress of this gets the better of all of us.
Rarity! Are we glad to see... Why are you carrying a humongous boulder?
Fluttershy! I'm so glad to see a friendly face. This awful labyrinth is getting to everypony.
Uh...
What is happening to my friends?
You're welcome<U+0096>
Must... find... Rainbow Dash. As a team... we're unstoppable. Rainbow Dash won't let us down.
Now I know that's a lie. How can it be?
Princess Celestia, we came as fast as we could.
The Elements! They're gone!
Who are you talking to?
What?
Pinkie Pie! Are we glad to see you!
What is happening to my friends?
Girls, why are you all acting like this?
We need to stick together.
Stop it, Discord. You're not playing fair.
How are we supposed to find the Elements of Harmony when you took away the labyrinth before we could get to the end?
But...but...
Think, Twilight, think! "Find the Elements back where you began." Back where you began.
Ugh. I just want to go home... Wait a minute... Home! "Back where you began!" The Elements must be in... Ponyville! Come on, girls. I'm certain this is what Discord's riddle really meant. If we get back to the library, I have a book that I just know can give us a clue. Ah!
Wah! Ahh! Whoa! Discord's turned our dirt roads into soap!
Ugh.
Ponyville, the chaos capital of the world? Not if I have anything to say about it.
Okay, we're here. Everyone please, please, please just go inside, please?
Pleeeease, we gotta hurry!
Tom?
You're not going in without him, are you?
Fine!
Oh, for the love of...
Don't ask. I need you to help me find something.
Ugh. No time to explain. We've got to find the reference guide to the Elements of Harmony before somepony does something she'll regret!
Fluttershy, you'd better give me that book!
Hey! Applejack, give me that book!
Pinkie! You guys! Stop it right now!
Hey, do you even know what you just stole?
GIVE ME THAT BOOK!
Where is she? Where's Rarity?
Lies!
Get back! All of you! This is my book, and I'm going to READ IT! The Elements!
The Elements! They were here all along!
See, girls? We did it! We found the Elements of Harmony! Together!
You don't even care, do you?
I never thought it would happen. My friends... have turned into complete JERKS! Necklace! Necklace! Necklace! Necklace! And... big crown thingy! Come on, everypony, let's go!
Nope. We've got the liar, the grump, the hoarder, and the brute. That just about covers it.
Congratulations, Spike, you're the new Rainbow Dash. Now let's go!
Too bad, you're Rainbow Dash. Now let's go defeat Discord so we don't ever have to talk to each other again!
Move! Look out, here comes Tom!
Discord! I've figured out your lame riddle. You're in for it now!
Formation, now!
"Rainbow Dash", get over here.
All right, let's get this over with. What's going on?
Who are you talking to?
FINE! Leave! See if I care! I don't need you guys either! With friends like you, who needs...enemies...?
Not anymore...
Pack your things, Spike, we're leaving.
Don't ask where we're going, 'cause I don't know yet. Just not here.
These are all the letters I've written to the princess since I've lived in Ponyville. But why would she send them back?
"Real friends don't care what your cover is."
You're right, Spike. I've got to fight for my friendships. For them. For me. For Equestria!
Oh...uh...why don't you just stay here and rest? I'll take care of the whole fighting for friendship thing myself.
Applejack, I'm here to fight for our friendship.
Snap out of it. This isn't you! You're not a liar.
I already have. Come on!
Without Rainbow Dash, we can't use the Elements.
Rainbow Dash!
We've been looking everywhere for you!
Discord's still on the loose! We need you to help us defeat him with your element, Loyalty!
Time for Plan B.
Okay, Fluttershy, you grab Rainbow Dash and hold her down. Applejack will lower me down from this rope so I can cast the memory spell on her.
Ugh...
Come on, Fluttershy, we've got to catch her. Hyah! Applejack!
If you can't catch her, Discord wins!
Okay, Applejack, last rope! Make it count!
Maybe it's a little early for a group hug.
Not as wonderful as friendship.
I'll tell you what we've learned, Discord: we've learned that friendship isn't always easy, but there's no doubt it's worth fighting for!
All right, ladies, let's show him what friendship can do!
Quill.
Parchment.
Extra ink.
Extra extra ink.
Is that everything on the checklist?
Great. Now that we've completed the checklist of things we need to create a checklist, we can make my checklist of the things I have to get done by the end of the day. Ready?
Item one: create checklist of the things I have to accomplish by the end of the day.
How are we doing, Spike?
Hmm... Seems like we just placed an order for those a few days ago.
Sounds like we're ahead of schedule. What's next?
Uh, I only ordered twelve.
Oh, that was very thoughtful of you. It's just some of the icing from the extra cupcake is getting all over the one next to it. See?
It's just that I'm planning on sharing these at a picnic later and I don't want anypony to feel like somepony else is getting more icing.
Not to worry, I'll just move some of this one to... hmm... I think I may have scooped too much... oops! Now those two have more. Let's just try this again... Hmm, no, that won't do. Let me just... hmm... put some here, and... no, that's not right. A little more on this one, a little bit... and wait... I'll just... ooh, a little bit here, and here, and... perfect!
Okay, time to tackle the next item on our-- oops! Looks like we're going to have to add 'give a baby dragon a bath' to our list.
Very efficient! And a little bit gross.
Almost everything.
We haven't sent a letter to Princess Celestia this week?!
Bad? BAD? Of course it's bad! I'm supposed to send Princess Celestia a letter every week, telling her about a lesson I've learned about friendship! Not every other week, not every ten days, every... single... week!
Ohh... Where's my calendar, where's my calendar?!
When did we send the last one?
And today is...
Argh! Nononononononono! If I don't send her a letter by sundown, I'll be... tardy!
Tar-dy, Spike! Late, I'll be late! Oh, how could I let this happen? I'm usually so organized. I've never been late with an assignment.
I'm afraid to take that chance, Spike. This is the ruler of all of Equestria we're talking about. The pony who holds my fate in her hooves! What if she doesn't forgive me?
What if instead she starts thinking I'm not taking my studies on friendship seriously?
What if she makes me come back to Canterlot and puts me back in school and makes me prove I've been taking them seriously by giving me a test?! What if I don't pass?!
She's my teacher. Do you know what teachers do to students who don't pass? They send them back a grade! But she won't just send me back a grade. She'll send me back to... magic kindergarten.
Huh?
You're right. I have no reason to worry. Because I'm going to solve a friend's problem and get that letter to Princess Celestia before sundown!
So... got any problems, troubles, conundrums, or any other sort of issues, major or minor, that I as a good friend could help you solve?
Then it looks like I'm going to have to find somepony who does.
You've got this, Twilight. You still have plenty of time to get that letter to Princess Celestia! Has to be somepony who needs the help of a good friend!
Rarity!
Don't worry, Rarity! I'm here!
What's happened? Are you alright?
Never fear, Rarity. As your friend I'll do my best to help you fi--
So... you just lost your ribbon?
But now you've found it?
And nothing else is bothering you? Nothing that I, as a good friend, could help you with?
Yes?
Measuring tape? Sure.
No need to panic. Rarity is just one pony. I'm sure one of my other friends will need me.
What in the world...? Rainbow must be angry with Applejack! She must hate her guts! How wonderful! Rainbow Dash! Stop! Listen, Rainbow. I know you're upset with Applejack, but don't worry. Whatever it is that has come between you two, I'm sure that I, as a good friend, can help you resolve your problems.
Oh, Rainbow Dash, you don't have to hide your feelings from me! I can tell you two must've had a terrible fight.
Now, why don't you tell me all about your issues with Applejack.
You don't? Then why are you destroying her property?
I can't believe I wasted all that time. I should have just come here first. Fluttershy always has some fear she's trying to get over. As a good friend, I'll be able to help her.
Fluttershy?
How can this be happening? Of all the days she had to stop being such a scaredy-pony, she had to pick today?! What am I going to do?!
It's fine. It'll all be fine. The day isn't over yet. But it will be over soon!
It'll be all over! My time in Ponyville! My advanced studies! Nono. You're a good student. You can do this. Ooh! But what if I can't? You can! You just have to keep it together. Keep. It. Together!
Huh?
The picnic! I should go see my friends!
No! I am not alright.
It's just terrible.
Simply awful.
It's the most horrific trouble I've ever been in and I really really really need your help!
My letter to Princess Celestia is almost overdue, and I haven't learned anything about friendship!
Something awful has happened! If I don't turn in the letter on time, I'll be tardy! TARDY!
This is not nothing. This is everything. I need you guys to help me find somepony with a problem I can fix before sundown! My whole life depends on it!
Clock is ticking, Twilight. Clock. Is. Ticking. Keep it together. If I can't find a friendship problem... I'll make a friendship problem!
Gr-eat. Just great. You three look like you're doing great too! Looks like three good friends who obviously don't need the help of another good friend. This is Smarty Pants. She was mine when I was your age, and now I want to give her to you!
She even comes with her own notebook and quill, for when you want to pretend she's doing her homework!
I just hope the fact that there are three of you and only one of her doesn't become a problem! I'd hate to cause a rift between such good friends. So, who wants to play with her first?
I gotta think of something! Thinkthinkthinkthinkthink Twilight, think! That's it! Ooh, you're going to like Smarty Pants. And you're going to like her more than anything.
The 'want it, need it' spell. Works every time. Okay, okay, let's break it up. I think we can all see that there is an important lesson to be learned here about-- Ugh! C'mon, girls, we're all friends here, right? Don't you think you ought to share?
Big McIntosh! Thank goodness! You've gotta help me get that doll away from those girls!
Oh, thank you so much. Now if you could just give her to me?
Oh no!
Oh, what have I done?!
Don't look at it!
My Smarty Pants doll! I enchanted her and now everypony is fighting over her!
Oh, I had to do something! I had nothing to report to Princess Celestia! I thought if I couldn't find a problem, I'd make a problem! The day is almost over!
Goodbye, girls. If you care to visit, I'll be in magic kindergarten, back in Canterlot.
But...but... I'm supposed to send you a letter about friendship every week. I missed the deadline. I'm a bad student! I'm... tardy!
Really?
Princess Celestia, wait! How did you know I was in trouble?
I'm Star Swirl the Bearded! Father of the amniomorphic spell? Did you even read that book I gave you about obscure unicorn history?
Hi, everypony. Great costumes. Happy Nightmare Night, Granny Smith.
Since you moved here from Trottingham?
Pinkie Pie, aren't you a little old for this?
Do you like it?
A clown? Look at the borders on these robes. These are hoof-stitched!
Star Swirl the Bearded is only the most important conjurer of the pre-classical era.
He created more than two hundred spells! He even has a shelf in the Canterlot library of magic named after him. Maybe I should start up a pony group to teach ponies about history. I bet everypony would love it! Don't you, Spike?
Hey look, we're here already! Should we get something to eat?
Rainbow Dash, that wasn't very nice.
Look what you did to Spike!
Happy Nightmare Night, Applejack!
She means me, Spike.
Princess Luna!
I'm gonna go talk to her.
No, she's not. I saw the Elements of Harmony change her back to good. But it seems like she's having some trouble adjusting after being gone for a thousand years.
Princess Luna? Hi, my name is-
Thank you! Finally! Somepony who gets my costume! Uh, I just came to welcome you to our celebration! My actual name is-
And that was a good thing, right?
Well, you kinda sound like you're yelling at me.
You know, that might explain why your appearance was met with... mixed results. I think if you just changed your approach a bit, you might be met with a warmer reception.
Lower the volume?
Fluttershy, it's me, Twilight!
Wait right here.
Fluttershy... you remember Princess Luna?
A little quieter, princess.
Better. Right, Fluttershy?
Now you're getting it.
Yes! Well done.
Come on, princess. Time for plan B.
My friend Applejack is one of the most likable ponies around. I'm sure she'll have some ideas.
Uh... Applejack, the princess is looking for a little advice on how to fit in around here.
Fire away, princess!
Princess, remember! Watch the screaming!
It's not over yet.
I'm going to do what I do best. Lecture her!
Princess?
Princess, I'm sorry it hasn't worked out how we wanted. But you have to believe me when I tell you that Nightmare Night is one of the most popular celebrations we have.
Princess...
No! No shrieking. No screaming or squealing either. Okay?
There's something I want you to see. And I promise that it's safe, but you really, really, really can't shriek. Do you promise not to shriek?
Pinkie Pie, you remember Princess Luna, right?
Rainbow!
She's changed, Pinkie! She's not evil or scary anymore! And she definitely doesn't want to gobble you up!
Huh?
So why do you keep running away and screaming?
Fun? Pinkie Pie, you're a genius!
Princess Luna! I've finally figured out why you're having so much trouble being liked!
Come with me. I'll explain everything on the way.
Just wait.
See? They really do like you, princess.
Dear Princess Celestia,
When you first sent me to Ponyville, I didn't know anything about friendship. I met somepony tonight who was having the same problem -- your sister, Princess Luna! She taught me that one of the best things you can do with friendship is to give it to others, and help them find it themselves! And I'm happy to report that all of Ponyville has learned that even if somepony seems a little intimidating, even scary, when you offer them your friendship, you'll discover a whole new pony underneath. And even if my Star Swirl the Bearded costume didn't go over, this still turned out to be the best Nightmare Night ever!
Three cutie marks. Three talents. I've never seen anything like it! I was just reading something about unusual equine illnesses. What was it?
Yes, Spike, you're amazing!
Hay fever... the trots... Cutie pox!
Cutie pox. This puzzling pony plague afflicted a population of ponies back in the Paleopony Period!
Random cutie marks appeared all over the ponies' bodies, causing them to perform all the talents that came with them!
It says here there's no known cure!
The cause of the breakout was never discovered, and the cutie pox disappears as mysteriously as they arrived!
She needs help!
Not some pony... some zebra!
Zecora! Apple Bloom has cutie pox! We were just on our way to see if you had a cure!
Apple Bloom, would you mind writing to Princess Celestia and telling her what you've learned?
Well, we had initially planned on inviting Rainbow, of course, except<U+0096>
Yeah, like care and attention, love and affection<U+0096> Ugh! And breath mints!
Aren't those all the same thing?
Hm, something's not right here.
And he's carrying something on his back...
Oh, thank goodness you're not hurt, Rainbow!
But what about the<U+0096>
Tenacity.
I can think of a few new words.
No, but she is kinda awesome.
Call me silly, but I think this whole hero thing might be going to Rainbow Dash's head.
Are you taking notes?
Umm, autobiographies are supposed to be written by the pony they are about.
I must say, I was impressed by that spell she used to fix the dam. Seems like something like that would take quite a bit of study.
Sounds like somepony's jealous.
Yup, we all played Mare Do Well at different times.
And I used my magic to fix the dam.
Of course we want you to be a hero.
Celebrating your accomplishments is natural. But...
What we're trying to say is, it's great to be really good at something, but it's important to act with grace and humility.
Sounds like you've got a letter to write to Princess Celestia.
When I got your letter saying you were stuck in Canterlot, I asked Pinkie Pie if it wouldn't be too much trouble to move my birthday party here, so you wouldn't have to miss it!
Is... that my dress?
It's so... simple. So practical. So me! It's the perfect dress for my birthday party! I love it!
When I told the Princess that I was moving the party to Canterlot, she was kind enough to offer us the Canterlot Castle ballroom!
I thought about having my birthday outside, but they're having another party on the castle grounds today.
Were you at that other party in the garden?
Rarity, I'm surprised at you.
I hadn't realized you were such a savvy businesspony!
All of those ponies look so posh. And with the Grand Galloping Gala coming up, I bet you could totally get some of them to buy your dresses. Very smart!
Oh, well, you didn't have to do that. You should totally go over there and mingle!
Understand what?
Why, yes! Yes, you may. A very, very close friend of mine from Ponyville made it for me.
I do say. Her name is<U+0096>
Oh, don't be so modest! This dress you made is beautiful!
We all think so!
No distractions. Today is too important. Re-shelving day! Understanding Medieval Equestria goes in Pony History. Modern Spellcasting. That's Classics. The Art of the To-Do List... Actually, I kinda wanna read that again.
Spike! What are you laughing at?
Uhh... if you guys don't mind?
Start with this one.
Wow, Spike, that's one of the kindest, most generous things you've ever done. I've never seen Rarity so happy!
Just about finished, Spike? Everypony will be here soon.
Not quite everything.
It's over, Spike! I'm cleaning that cheek!
Never!
Spike! Uh, sorry, Junebug, I think Spike might've gotten a little carried away.
What are you doing? You're out here demanding gifts now?
No problem. See you at home later?
Wow, what a rough night's sleep, Spike. I had the weirdest drea<U+0096>
I don't know! Think back to last night. Did something happen? Spike? What did you do after I saw you?
Spike!
You went to talk to who?
Huh?
Spike, I'm worried about you. You're usually not so... grabby!
This is Spike. And something's wrong with him. He used to be half this size! And he keeps trying to take things that aren't his!
So? What do you think, Doctor?
That's not the problem. He's always been a dragon.
Okay. Thank you, doctor.
Thanks anyway. C'mon, Spike.
Mature? So he's just... growing up? But that doesn't explain why he keeps grabbing things.
You mean the more things a dragon collects, the bigger and greedier he gets? But how do we stop him before he's completely out of control?
Hey, Spike! Check out this amazing broom!
C'mon, big boy! Look at this incredible broom!
Fight all you want, I'm not letting you out! Oh, Spike, I just re-shelved this room!
What now?
Applejack, help! Spike's running wild and I need you to lasso him!
Fluttershy? Fluttershy!?
What happened?
That was Spike!
C'mon, girls!
Pinkie Pie! Stop giving him cake!
He's completely out of control! Who knows where he'll go next!
We're getting closer!
Oh, isn't Canterlot wonderful this time of year?
I have an idea, let's play 'I spy with my little eye' as we walk! I'll go first. I spy... an eight-foot candy cane.
I can't believe that Princess Celestia chose us to put on the most important play of the season! Do you guys know what an honor this is? For all of us?
Fluttershy, you've got to come out of there!
PINKIE!
Yes, your Majesty. Did the other pony tribes see reason as I predicted?
About five minutes, your highness.
I actually think that the three tribes could've tried harder.
What's wrong?
Your Highness, it's just a stream. We can cross it easily.
What dungeon? Look, perhaps if we all calmed down...
Look, everypony! The entrance!
They must be... windigos!
My mentor Star Swirl the Bearded taught me about them. They're winter spirits that feed off fighting and hatred. The more hate the spirit feels, the colder things become!
And now our bodies will become as cold as our hearts... all because we were foolish enough to hate.
Nor do I.
I didn't either. Nothing like this has ever happened before. But I know it couldn't have been just me. It came from all three of us, joined together, in friendship.
We should be so honored that Princess Celestia chose us! She must really think we exemplify what good friends are!
Cup Cake and Carrot Cake must be so proud!
And be careful around Pumpkin Cake.
I have to finish this report for the Princess summarizing all my other reports to the Princess.
Hi! I finished up the work I had to do, so I thought I'd stop by and see if you needed any help. Whoa!
It's okay, Pinkie. I figured you would need some help. That's why I stopped by.
Babies take a lot of work, and some ponies are just not cut out to handle the responsibility.
I'm happy to help! It's no trouble<U+0096>
Just do your best, Applejack.
Quiet, Pinkie, I think Applejack's coming!
It's from Applejack. "Family and friends, not coming back to Ponyville."
"...Don't worry, will send money soon." That's all there is.
Don't worry. We'll search all of Equestria if we have to. We'll bring her back.
I don't know how we'll break it to Ponyville!
This is Dodge Junction, girls. Applejack is supposed to have come here after the rodeo ended. Let's fan out and try to find her.
Tell us what happened, Applejack!
Yes, ma'am.
I don't care what she says. Applejack's not telling us something.
We're your cherry sorters. Shall we get started?
So, AJ, how was Canterlot? Not talking about Ponyville, talking about Canterlot, totally different town.
Was the rodeo fun?
Did you meet some nice ponies there?
So you told her about Sweet Apple Acres?
Is it because you were insulted when I gave you that book on organized orchards?
Well, girls, we seem to be striking out.
I'm glad we're finally gonna get some answers from Applejack.
Oh no, she won't! Look, girls!
We'll pay you triple to slow down!
Rainbow, go back!
Know what?
I am. You won an amazing number of ribbons, just like Miss Jubilee said!
Applejack, you're not a failure.
Isn't this exciting, Spike? Opening day of cider season!
Still worried about Flim and Flam?
Don't worry, Applejack, I know you'll win tomorrow!
Applejack? Are you sure this is such a good idea?
Well, good luck.
Um, Miss Mayor! Are honorary family members allowed to help in the competition?
Okay, everypony, we're not gonna let those smooth talkers take our friend's farm.
Fluttershy, help Applejack with the trees.
Pinkie Pie, you're on apple catching detail.
Rarity, you've got a discerning eye. Help Granny Smith at the quality control station.
Rainbow Dash, do you think you can help Big McIntosh press?
Alright, everypony, let's save Sweet Apple Acres!
Based on these figures, we're making five barrels for every three of theirs!
C'mon, Rainbow Dash, keep grinding!
We'll just have to work harder! C'mon, everypony!
I'm proud of you, Applejack.
Integrity like that will always be... rewarded.
That means Sweet Apple Acres is still in business!
Hey, Rarity. Hey, Pinkie Pie. What are you looking at?
Oh no, oh no, oh no!
How is she, doctor?
Reading is for everypony, Rainbow Dash!
I think you'd like Daring. She's a lot like you. Adventurous, fierce, and undeniably, unquestionably, unstoppable.
We brought your favorite board game!
You go first, Rainbow Dash!
Alright, uh... cloud three.
Uh... cloud two?
But you don't lose some. I don't think you've ever lost a game of<U+0097>
But yesterday you were desperate for things to do!
Alright then.
What's going on, Rainbow Dash?
<U+0097>'Daring Do and the Quest for the Sapphire Statue'!
Wow, I knew the book was good, but I didn't know it could drive a pony to petty theft!
Well, I'm glad that's all this is about.
Like I said, I have every book in the series, and you can borrow them all, any time you like!
Rainbow Dash, just because you're athletic doesn't mean you aren't smart!
Reading is something everypony can enjoy, if they just give it a try.
That's a great lesson, and it would make a great letter to the Princess.
Oh my goodness, I didn't even see you there. I'm so so sorry.
I've just been reading the most fascinating book about Hearts and Hooves Day. Did you know that this holiday got its start because of a love potion?
That's right. It even has the recipe.
Of course you can. I have another book here that I think you'll<U+0096>
I know this is hard for you, Pinkie, seeing that you're friends with everypony, but you just have to accept that Cranky is gonna be an exception. He just... doesn't want to be bothered.
Rainbow!
Oh, hi, Spike!
Frankly, I don't know how you can sleep at a time like this!
It's awful, it's horrible, it's tragic!
Here. Now do you see what's wrong?
No, the problem is I just finished planning my schedule for the month, but I forgot to leave time to plan for next month! Don't you see? There's no time in my schedule to put together another schedule! I could move my meeting with the Ponyville Hay Board to the following Tuesday, but then I have to reschedule my lunch with Pinkie Pie, and you know what a nightmare she is with scheduling. This is an absolute disaster. My whole year could be thrown off!
Oh, my gosh, I think I did it! If I can find a way to read "The Art of Invisibility Spells" and "Thornhoof's Brief History of Canterlot" at the same time, that could leave me a half-hour scheduling window! Huh?
Who are you? I mean, you're me, but I'm me too. How can there be two me's? It's not scientifically possible. You are not scientifically possible!
You're from the future?!
What happened to you? The future must be awful.
Is there some sort of epic pony war in the distant future or something?
I can't believe time travel is really possible! How did you, I mean, I figure it out?
Really? Where? I've never seen them.
Listen, everypony! I've got something really important to say!
This is no laughing matter! We have a crisis on our hooves!
I've just been visited by myself from the future!
This isn't a joke! My future self tried to warn me about a horrible disaster that's going to occur sometime before next Tuesday morning!
I don't know! I got sucked back into the future before I could explain!
We'll just have to work together to make sure we're safe. Rainbow Dash, you and the other Pegasi spread out over Equestria, and look for any kind of problem that could lead to a disaster, and I mean anything.
Everypony else<U+0096>
Everypony else, time to disaster-proof Equestria!
Done, and done, and done. Applejack, what about the Everfree Forest?
Great.
Excellent. Well, we've done everything on the list, but still... Future Twilight looked like she'd been through a horrible ordeal. I just have this nagging feeling we should be looking for something bigger than loose bolts and leaky pipes.
That's Cerberus! He's supposed to be guarding the gates of Tartarus. But if he's here, then all the ancient evil creatures that have been imprisoned there could escape and destroy Equestria!
Yeah! Isn't it great? Hey, Cerberus! You look like you could use some obedience training! Magic obedience training!
Huh?
Wow, I knew you were good with animals, but this is amazing!
Pinkie.
Do you have a ball I can borrow?
Hey, Cerberus! Look what I have!
I'll be back as soon as I've returned him to the gates of Tartarus. Once he's back at home, there'll be no disaster.
Great. I got him back before any of the evil creatures could escape.
Oh no!
It's not that, it's this!
The cut's in the exact same spot as the scar on future Twilight's cheek! We haven't changed the future at all! The disaster is still coming!
If the disaster wasn't caused by Cerberus getting loose, then what could it possibly be?
I don't have time for another one of your lectures, Spike! This is serious!
I did everything I could think of to change the future. But it didn't work. So maybe it's not what I do... Maybe it's what I don't do!
If I stand right here and don't move a muscle until next Tuesday, I can't possibly do whatever it is that future Twilight wanted to warn me not to do!
Spike, stop! Think of the stomach ache!
What happened?
Show me.
Show me! Oh no! This is the same mane cut as future Twilight!
I don't care how it looks! It's just another sign that the future hasn't changed! Not doing anything didn't work either! Oh, I wish there was a way to know what was going to happen so I could stop it!
What's this?
Madame Pinkie?
Yeah, uh... best one I've seen.
Yes, and?
Are you sure?
Pinkie, I need your Pinkie Sense to tell me what the impending disaster is that future Twilight was trying to warn me about!
Off by point zero two from yesterday. Carry the fifteen... Negative azimuth on the fourteenth moon...
Ah, Pinkie, I'm glad you're here. Can you help me recalibrate the apertures on the nine-and-quarter catadioptric telescopes?
So I was thinking, after I came to see Madame Pinkie and the flowerpot landed on my head<U+0097>see the bandage? Just like the bandage from the future...
I had an epiphany after that flowerpot. Doing things didn't work, not doing things didn't work, and I couldn't predict the future either, so I only had one other choice. Monitor everything.
That way no matter what happens in the future, I'll be ready! I thought I saw something last night in the Horsehead Nebula, but after staring at it for three straight hours I realized, I was wrong!
Oh, I didn't sleep. I haven't slept since future Twilight was here. There are only three days left until next Tuesday, I can sleep all I want after that!
Pinkie, did you finish recalibrating the apertures on the nine-and-quarter-inch catadioptric telescopes?
Ah! My eye!
The eye patch...! Another sign! Nearly all the signs have come true! I haven't done a thing to prevent the catastrophe! If Tuesday's tomorrow, and the disaster happens by Tuesday morning, then there's only one solution. I'll just have to... stop time!
Okay, the Canterlot archives are right over there. Let's move!
Guard! C'mon, you guys! That was close.
No, there's nothing fun about this!
Focus, guys! The only way to prevent this disaster is to stop time! Time spells are kept in the Star Swirl the Bearded wing, the most secure section of the archives. That's why we're sneaking around!
No, it's not fun!
The coast is clear. Now slowly lift me into the window so we can<U+0096> AH!
Okay, if my calculations are correct, the Star Swirl the Bearded wing should be right... here.
What is it, Spike?
I don't understand. It's supposed to be right here... How are we supposed to find it now?
Huh. How'd I miss that? Look at all those priceless magic scrolls. There are more than I ever imagined!
What do we do, what do we do?!
Thanks!
Oh no!
Look! I look just like future Twilight... The last sign has come true!
Come on! It's almost Tuesday morning! The disaster could happen at any moment!
I. Don't. Know!
Nnngh, no! Tuesday morning, the disaster! Incoming!
Why isn't anypony surprised to see me sneaking around in here?! Is it possible there never was a disaster? That I've just been making myself frantic over nothing?!
I don't know. But I do know one thing. I look ridiculous.
And it's all because I couldn't stop worrying and let the future handle itself! Well, not anymore. From now on, I'm gonna solve problems as they come, and stop worrying about every little thing!
No more late night pacing. If only I had learned this lesson a week ago, we wouldn't have had to go through all this.
Pinkie, you're a genius!
Now I can go back and tell past Twilight that she doesn't need to go berserk with worry about a disaster that's never gonna come!
Twilight, you've got to listen to me!
Twilight, please! I have a very important message for you from the future!
That's right, now listen<U+0096>
Please! I don't have much time!
Actually, I'm from next Tuesday morning, but that's not important right now!
The time spells are in the Canterlot archives. But that's not<U+0096>
They're in the Star Swirl the Bearded wing. Now, you have to listen to<U+0096>
I have something extremely important to tell you about the future, and I only have a few seconds, so you've got to listen! Whatever you do, don't<U+0096>
<U+0096>waste your time... worrying... about... Ugh! I can't believe I just did that!
Remember last week when future Twilight came to warn me about something? That was me trying to warn myself not to worry so much! Now I'm gonna spend the next week freaking out about a disaster that doesn't even exist! Ugh...
Huh, I guess you're right, Pinkie.
Come on, future Spike. Let's get you home.
C'mon, Fluttershy, it'll be fun!
But Fluttershy, the great dragon migration happens only once in a generation! Do you really wanna pass up a chance like that?
Aw, Fluttershy, we just don't want you to miss out.
Well... yeah!
I don't see any dragons.
No, I don't think so. We're just a little early, and I'm glad we are. This way, we can watch every moment of the migration without bringing any unwanted attention to ourselves!
You look very nice, Rarity, but could you maybe look nice down here in the trench with us?
Wow, amazing!
Or act like them.
Uuugh! I don't know! For the last time, Spike, you were given to me as an egg. I don't know who found you or where they found you.
I'm sorry, Spike.
Oh, Spike. Why don't we do some late-night research? See what we can find out.
Of course! I'm sure we can find something.
Nothing. Nothing in this one either!
I know! It's hard to believe, but ponies know next to nothing about dragons. Apparently they're too rare and too scary to try to talk to or study!
Aw, Spike.
That sounds great. I'm famished.
Hold it!
Yes, Spike. I couldn't answer your questions. My books couldn't either. I understand why you want to look elsewhere. I truly believe you need to go on this quest. And we have no right to stop you.
Well then, I guess this is goodbye, Spike. We can't wait to hear about it when you return.
Quest.
We have faith in you!
Of course.
Shh! We'll never pass if they hear three voices coming out of one dragon! Now come on, let's go!
Aheh... yeah... hilarious.
How can he just throw that away?! That letter could be something important!
I know, I know!
There's no reason to disrespect Princess Celestia that way!
Let's go! I challenge Spike to a tail wrestle!
Oof!
Spike's on his own this time.
Oh no, this is terrible!
No, Rainbow Dash, this is all my fault! I encouraged him to go!
Rainbow Dash, stop! We can't fly!
Well, we're just gonna have to hoof it!
That's right!
Nyuh!
Of course. What are friends for?
This is an anemometer. It measures your accelerative velocity and translates it into wing power, thus gauging your cumulative H2O anti-gravitational potential. Any other questions?
Is that you again, Thunderlane? Please, we need to have a germ-free environment.
We have 9.3 wing power.
16.5 wing power!
Tell her!
No, you!
That's wonderful, Flitter. Much better than yesterday.
Do I look like I speak squirrel?
Fluttershy, that's a huge improvement!
Let's see, with those eight sick Pegasi out with the feather flu... Oh no!
No...
...You might not have enough wing power to create a tornado powerful enough to lift the water to Cloudsdale!
I sure hope so! One hundred and fifty wing power. Two hundred and fifty wing power. Five hundred wing power!
Seven hundred and fifty wing power!
Fluttershy! What are you doing here?!
She could sure use it, considering eight Pegasi are sick with the feather flu!
Are you okay?
Oh, you were so close to the eight hundred wing power minimum! I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash.
But you've pushed your crew to their limit already!
If you break apart again, somepony could get hurt! You should quit, it's not safe!
Okay, here we go... One hundred wing power! Two hundred! Five hundred!
Seven hundred! Seven hundred and fifty wing power!
Seven ninety five! We are so close! Fluttershy, they need you up there!
You can make a difference!
Do it for Equestria! Do it for Rainbow Dash! Do it for yourself!
It's moving! She's doing it! Seven ninety eight! She surpassed her best wing power number!
She did it! She did it! They all did it!
I like Gabby Gums too, but don't you think she can be a little mean?
"Celestia Just Like Us"? Gabby Gums doesn't value anypony's privacy.
I just can't help feeling sorry for the ponies featured in her columns. It's gotta be a little embarrassing.
Listen to this one. "Twilight Sparkle: I Was a Canterlot Snob. A well-placed scaly source close to the prissy pony says Twilight Sparkle thinks Ponyville is nothing but muddy roads and low-class rubes." Spike!
How could you say such a thing?
But it's all lies! Gabby Gums prints whatever she wants! She doesn't care whose reputation she destroys! "Fluttershy Has Tail Extensions!" "Pinkie Pie is an Out-of-Control Party Animal!"
Oh, look! According to this one, the Cakes are breaking up!
"Rainbow Dash: Speed Demon or Super Softie?"?!
See, Rarity? Your so-called 'harmless gossip' can be very hurtful!
We've got to put a stop to this once and for all! Sweetie Belle's on the newspaper staff. Maybe she knows who Gabby Gums is.
Thank you for inviting us all to go with you to Canterlot for the National Dessert Competition.
Donut Joe! What are you doing in Ponyville?
Well, it sure looks like we're in for a delicious competition tomorrow. Maybe we should all settle in for a good night's sleep.
Pinkie... you're overreacting.
Whoa!
Um, you better hold off on giving yourself an award just yet, Pinkie. Look.
You mean, who did it.
Well, having read many mystery novels, I know that the only way to discover the culprit is to investigate.
Fine, Pinkie. Should we start looking for clues?
Yes?
Pinkie, how could you possibly know?
But it makes no sense!
Well, first, if you were tied to the train tracks, how are you now here?
And second, the cake hasn't been sliced. It's been bitten. Just look at the teeth marks!
Pinkie! There is no laser beam security system! And Joe is not sleek, stealthy Con Mane! He's big, gruff, and messy!
May be?
Pinkie... that moose is a mousse!
So you're saying that the culprit is...
Pinkie, stop! This is ridiculous! Look at her!
Thank you!
Well, you have to stop the wild accusations and get to the truth. Everypony go back to your cars while we do a little investigating. Okay, Pinkie, in order to really solve this mystery, we're going to have to find clues. Now you were here at the scene of the crime all night.
No! But maybe you saw something that will help us.
Good... Let's retrace your steps.
Hm... A-ha! Our first clue. I think I know who did it, Pinkie.
Yes, but I need more evidence to confirm. Tell me what happened next.
The conductor, huh? But that doesn't make any sense. What happened next, Pinkie?
Yes?
Interesting. Anything else?
Oh my, what is that?
What next Pinkie?
And when you woke up, half the cake was gone?
By Jove, I think I've got it. Call everypony back. We have a cake culprit to catch.
I bet you're wondering why you're all here again.
We have discovered the true culprit of this cake carnage.
Well, you see, when committing a crime, it's crucial that one never leaves behind clues, especially an obvious clue like... this.
Pinkie, Gustave doesn't have blue feathers.
No, Pinkie. Remember how when you chased the suspect to the caboose, they suddenly disappeared? That's because they flew away. But the thief did leave a little something behind, didn't you, Rainbow Dash?
Case not solved, because when we went to the engine, I saw the conductor's hat. And inside the hat was... this.
Pinkie, remember? You chased a pony to the engine, where you thought you saw the conductor shoveling coal, but that wasn't the conductor at all. It was... Fluttershy!
Pinkie! But then another clue confounded my suspicions. You were guarding the cake when the curtains mysteriously closed. But that's no mystery, that's magic. But when the thief tried to make their great escape, they left a little addition to the portrait. Has anypony else noticed that Rarity is wearing her hair rather differently today?
Really?
But it isn't. We figured out who ate the Marzipan Mascarpone Meringue Madness, but we still don't know who devoured the other bakers' goods.
Well... Yes, I do. Do you?
Well, Pinkie. Did you find the devourer of the desserts?
What do you say, bakers?
Well, everypony, we finally have the mystery solved.
Care for a bite?
Dear Twilight, I am sure you are as excited as I am about the upcoming wedding in Canterlot. Wedding? I will be presiding over the ceremony, but would very much like you and your friends to help with the preparations for this wonderful occasion. Fluttershy, I would like you and your songbird choir to provide the music.
Pinkie Pie, I can think of no one more qualified than you to host the reception.
Applejack, you will be in charge of the catering for the reception.
Rainbow Dash<U+0096>
...I would very much appreciate it if you could perform a sonic rainboom as the bride and groom complete their "I do"'s.
Rarity, you will be responsible for designing the dresses for the bride and her bridesmaids.
And as for you, Twilight, you will be playing the most important role of all: Making sure that everything goes as planned. See you all very soon. Yours, Princess Celestia. But... I don't understand. Who's getting married?
Princess Celestia cordially invites you to the wedding of Princess Mi Amore Cadenza and... My brother?!
Sorry, it's just that Shining Armor and I have always been so close. He's my B.B.B.F.F!
Big Brother Best Friend Forever?
Before I came here and learned the importance of friendship, Shining Armor was the only pony I ever really accepted as a friend. When I was just a filly, I found it rather silly To see how many other ponies I could meet I had my books to read, didn't know that I would ever need Other ponies to make my life complete
And though he's, oh, so far away I hoped that he would stay My big brother best friend Forever... Forever...
He is pretty special. I mean, they don't let just anypony be captain of the Royal Guard.
I guess we are.
I'm just thinking about Shining Armor. Ever since I moved to Ponyville, we've been seeing each other less and less. And now that he's starting a new family with this "Princess Mi Amore Ca-whatshername", we'll probably never see each other.
Couldn't seem to make time to tell me he was getting married.
Yeah. Congratulate. And then give him a piece of my mind.
I've got something to say to you, mister.
How dare you not tell me in person that you were getting married! I'm your sister, for pony's sake!
Yeah, there's a big wedding coming up. Maybe you heard about it?
Okay, okay, I get it. You've got a really important job protecting all of Canterlot with a force field only you can conjure up. But still... how could you not tell me about something as big as your wedding? Am I not that important to you any more?
You want me to be your best mare?
I'd be honored! But I'm still pretty ticked you're marrying somepony I don't even know! When did you even meet this "Princess Mi Amore Cadenza"?
Cadance? As in the Cadance? As in the greatest foalsitter in all the history of foalsitters?!
Ohmygoshohmygosh! Cadance is only the most amazing pony ever! She's beautiful, she's caring, she's kind...
How many unicorns can just spread love wherever they go? I only know of one! And you're marrying her! You're marrying Cadance! You're marrying Cadance!
Cadance! Sunshine, sunshine, ladybugs awake! Clap your hooves and do a little shake!
Cadance, it's me, Twilight!
Mmm. Check.
Did... you see what she...
Oh, you should have seen how she acted back there. I don't know when she changed, but she changed! "Please, call me Princess Mi Amore Cadenza."
Gee, maybe her name should be "Princess Demandy-pants."
Bet I can guess what you're all thinking. Cadance is the absolute worst bride-to-be ever.
Rarity, she was so demanding!
Applejack, did you know that after she told you how much she just 'love-love-loved' your hors d'eouvres, she threw them in the trash?
No, she was just being fake and totally insincere!
See? Rude!
Pinkie Pie, you had to have noticed how Cadance treated<U+0096>
Never mind. Rainbow Dash, you're with me, right?
And I'm sure it's the result of being an awful pony who doesn't deserve to even know Shining Armor, let alone marry him!
I am not being possessive, and I am not taking it out on Cadance! You're all just too caught up in your wedding planning to notice that maybe there shouldn't even be a wedding!
We need to talk. I think you're making a big<U+0096>
She sure has a way of sneaking up on people.
She isn't just unpleasant and rude. She's downright evil!
Shining Armor's in real trouble! You have to help<U+0096>
Dresses? What are you<U+0096>?
New bridesmaids? What happened to her old bridesmaids?
Looks like I really am on my own.
I'm here! I'm not gonna stand next to her! And neither should you!
You have to listen to me!
I'm fine.
I've got something to say! She's evil!
She's been horrible to my friends, she's obviously done something to her bridesmaids, and if that wasn't enough, I saw her put a spell on my brother that made his eyes go all !
Because you're evil!
Evil! And if I don't stop you, you're gonna ruin my brother's life!
I was just trying to<U+0096>
I was<U+0096>
Maybe I was being overprotective. I could've gained a sister. But instead... I just lost a brother.
I'm sorry!
"Princess Celestia cordially invites you to the wedding of Princess Mi Amore Cadenza and..." My brother?
How dare you not tell me in person that you were getting married!
But I'm still pretty ticked you're marrying somepony I don't even know.
Cadance is only the most amazing pony ever!
Cadance, it's me! Twilight!
She's evil! I saw her put a spell on my brother that made his eyes go all !
I just lost a brother. I'm sorry!
Hello? Is anyone there?
Where am I?
Help! Help!
Plans? What plans?
Don't you dare do anything to my brother, you... you monster!
Likely story!
You remember me!
We have to get out of here. We have to stop her!
We will. We just have to find... There!
Stop!
Princess Celestia!
Go, go!
They're changelings, remember?
Don't let them distract you. We have to get to the Elements of Harmony. They're our only hope.
It's not your fault. She fooled everypony.
Quick! Go to him while you still have the chance!
Your spell! Perform your spell!
Seriously, though. I get why the queen of the changelings wanted to be with you, but how did you get someone as amazing as Cadance to marry you?
Love is in bloom A beautiful bride, a handsome groom, Two hearts becoming one A bond that cannot be undone because
Love you too, B.B.B.F.F.
Love is in bloom A beautiful bride, a handsome groom I said love is in bloom You're starting a life and making room For us,
Now this was a great wedding.
Where are all my quills? Brbrbr. No, no, no, no, no... Ugh! I need the Magical Compendium volumes 1 through 36! Where is it?!
Flash cards! I should make some flash cards. Spike, I'm gonna need you to quiz me. On everything. Everything I've ever learned. Ever. That isn't going to be enough cards.
Just a test? Just a test!? Princess Celestia wants to give me some kind of exam, and you're trying to tell me to calm down because it's just a test?!
Urgh!
Ahem.
You wanted to see me? To give me a test? I brought my own quills and plenty of paper to show my work. Sorry, sorry!
The Crystal Empire? I'm sorry, I-I thought I'd studied. Ooh. I don't think there's anything in any of my books th<U+0096>
You want me to help protect an entire empire?
How do I begin?
My brother is there?
But what if I fail?
But what if<U+0096>
Mm-hmm!
I was prepared to do my best Thought I could handle any test For I can do so many tricks But I wasn't prepared for this
The square root of five hundred and forty-six is twenty-three point three six six six four two eight nine one zero nine.
I could ace a quiz on friendship's bliss But I wasn't prepared for this Will I fail, or will I pass? I can't be sure...
My mind is sharp, my skills intact My heart is pure...
Oh, I've taken my share of licks I've made it through the thin and thick But no I wasn't
Oh no, I wasn't
No I wasn't
Not quite. We're going to the Crystal Empire!
Shining Armor?
But Princess Celestia said I was being sent here to find a way to protect the Empire! If King Sombra can't get in, then it must already be protected.
Go, go!
Everypony okay?
Oh, no! Shining Armor, your horn!
Cadance!
Are you okay?
That's why we're here.
A research paper!
That must be part of my test <U+0096> to gather information from the Crystal Ponies and deliver it to you! This is gonna be great! I love research papers!
Don't worry, big brother. I am really good at this sort of thing.
Are you sure? Absolutely sure?
King Sombra's spell must be why their coats aren't... crystally.
Yes.
If you think of anything, even the smallest thing...
Maybe the others are having better luck.
Ooookay.
A library? Well, why didn't you say so?!
I just... I don't even know what to... There are no words.
Yes. We're looking for a book.
You do. You really do.
Which is where, exactly?
We'll just take a look around. I'm sure we can find it on our own.
No, no, no, no, no... Yes! "History of the Crystal Empire". I just hope it has the answers we need.
A 'Crystal Faire'. According to this book, it was established by their first queen and became their most important tradition. The Faire was held every year to "renew the spirit of love and unity in the empire so they could protect it from harm". My friends and I could put it together. Everything we need to know is in the book!
We'll get started right away. C'mon, Spike, we've got a Crystal Faire to put together!
Princess Cadance needs our help Her magic will not last forever I think we can do it But we need to work together
And the Crystal Kingdom anthem Can you learn it in a day?
It looks amazing! I don't know how I could've done this without you! One last check to make sure everything is in place, and then the festivities can begin!
The last page of the book mentioned a Crystal Heart as the faire's centerpiece, so I used my magic to cut one out of a crystal block.
Hear ye, hear<U+0096>
Ahem. Hear ye, hear ye! Princess Cadance and Prince Shining Armor do cordially invite you to attend the Crystal Faire!
Why did you<U+0096>
I didn't know it was an actual relic! The book didn't mention anything about the Crystal Ponies powering the Heart! There was a page missing... How did I not notice?!
You wanted to see me? To give me a test?
You want me to help protect an entire empire?
But what if I fail?
Go, go!
"History of the Crystal Empire". The last page of the book mentioned a Crystal Heart as the Faire's centerpiece, so I used my magic to cut one out of a crystal block.
I didn't know it was an actual relic!
No, you stay here with Cadance. She needs you, Shining Armor. I'll retrieve the Heart.
I've been trying to figure out how I'm meant to pass Celestia's test. Retrieving the Crystal Heart must be it. But there is something else you can do.
You and the rest of our friends have to keep the Faire going.
The whole purpose of the Crystal Faire is to lift the spirits of the Crystal Ponies, so they can activate the Crystal Heart.
If the Crystal Ponies find out that King Sombra is trying to take over the Empire again, their spirits are gonna be anything but lifted. It won't matter if I find the Crystal Heart. They won't be able to make it work. You have to keep them happy here at the Faire.
I will.
You can't. I have to retrieve the Crystal Heart by myself.
Not a claw, Spike.
I think I might know where King Sombra hid the Crystal Heart.
The king would've been counting on the fact that nopony would dare come looking for it here. They'd have been too afraid to even try.
You and me both.
It's gotta be here somewhere. It's just gotta be! Not a claw, Spike.
Celestia's orders!
Of course!
No. Because this isn't King Sombra's castle.
That was a little trick Celestia taught me.
You stay here.
Not yet. I can't even tell how far down this goes!
Spike?
Can you see outside?
Yes...
Spike, I think it's here! Huh?
I don't know! I opened the door and<U+0096>
Go where?
I don't understand! The test?
I... You didn't say anything about no longer being your student if I failed!
But... what do I do now?
King Sombra's dark magic. A doorway that leads to your worst fear.
A fear that will never come to pass. I'm never gonna send you away. And I'm not gonna fail my test!
Stairs. Lots and lots of stairs. Maybe you should come with me this time.
Hold on to me.
Whoa. Whoaaa! Yaaaah!
The Heart... Where's the Crystal<U+0096>
Don't move!
You can move, just not toward me! How could I have been so foolish? I was just so eager to get it! Then when I saw what was going on outside, I...
King Sombra is already attacking the Empire. He could reach the Crystal Ponies at any moment... reach Princess Cadance, my brother, my friends. There may not be enough time for me to find a way to escape.
You have to be the one to bring the Crystal Heart to the Faire.
Go!
Goooo!
Good job, Spike.
Wasn't me who saved you in the end. It was Spike.
I don't think she's gonna give me a new test.
I wish it had been me who ultimately made it so. But it wasn't.
Does this mean...?
I passed!
Ooh.
Turns out I was
Turns out I was
Phew, this spell's a toughie. But I feel lucky this time! One, two...
Nnnnnng! Pinkie, why'd you do that?!
Trying to turn that apple into an orange!
One, two...
Pinkie! What in the wide, wide world of Equestria are you doing now?
Oh, Pinkie. I'm afraid no matter how hard you try, the only way to pull something like that off is if there's more of you to go around.
Legend of the who-what now? Pinkie! I'm familiar with loads of legends, and I never heard of<U+0096>
Of course not! Back to work.
Okay, everypony, please, calm down!
Please, everypony, hang on while I try to figure something out! Come on, Spike. I've gotta try to remember the name of that legend she mentioned.
Aha, here it is! "The legend of the Mirror Pond"... It describes a spell I can use to send them back where they came from!
But there's a catch. If I can't figure out which one's the real Pinkie, I might send her back by mistake!
Does anypony here know how we can tell the real Pinkie Pie from all the rest of them?
Excuse me, whoever you are, but I'm not talking to any of you Pinkies unless you're the real Pinkie.
I have no idea.
Ugh, this is hopeless!
Please. The real Pinkie Pie never sat that long in one place her whole life!
Of course she's gonna say she's the real Pinkie! They all do! You're wasting your time.
Oh, Spike, how're we gonna do this? I can't risk sending the real Pinkie back into the pond!
You know, that's not a bad idea.
I've been looking all over for you ponies. What are you all doing here?
You guys, we're gonna fix this. And I know exactly how.
I don't think so. Now come along. I've already got Applejack and her family rounding up all the Pinkies.
Welcome, Pinkies, welcome. Please have a seat and make yourselves comfortable. Okay, I suppose you can't be comfortable staying in one place, but have a seat anyway. Sit down!
Better. Now, I suppose you're all wondering why I've gathered you all here today.
No, just the opposite actually.
Have her come sit with the others.
Pinkies, you've been brought here to take a test.
Don't worry, it's a simple test, about as simple as they come, and whoever passes gets to stay.
Curtain, please. The test... will be watching paint dry!
On your mark, get set, go!
Pinkie, you can look away now.
You passed. You're the only Pinkie who kept staring at the wall.
I knew you'd be up to the challenge.
Hi, Pinkie Pie. We were thinking we should go out and celebrate.
I promise, Fluttershy. Nothing bad will happen to them.
Phew!
That's all for now, little ones. Maybe we can practice again later, if Fluttershy says it's alright.
Thanks, Spike. I have to be at my best when she arrives with the delegates from Saddle Arabia. I can't believe she's trusting me with the entertainment.
What's going on here?
Trixie!
Stop picking on my friends, Trixie!
Forget it! I'd never make a deal like that!
Trixie, put him down. Why are you doing this?
Alright, Trixie. Let's duel!
An age spell? But... how could you do an age spell? That's only for the highest level unicorns!
It's okay, guys. I'll figure something out. Just take care of each other. And keep an eye on Trixie. There's something strange about her.
Ugh! It's impossible! How could Trixie know such advanced magic? Without Spike, I can't get a message to the Princess in Saddle Arabia. So who else do I know who understands strange and powerful magic?
I don't know what to do, Zecora. I feel like I've abandoned my friends. But I can't take her on horn-to-horn.
You'll train me in magic? But she was doing age spells, weather spells, you name it!
You really think I can beat her?
Okay, when do we start?
I'm sorry, Zecora. I'm trying my best, but... I can't stop thinking about Trixie. There was something different about her. It's like she's gone from high and mighty to mean and nasty.
I can't believe I didn't recognize the Alicorn Amulet!
But how am I supposed to beat that amulet? My magic's not good enough!
Nix your magic, use the six... Nix your magic, use the six! Use the six! That's it! Zecora, you're a genius! Now we'll need to get you back inside Ponyville, Fluttershy.
I know about the Alicorn Amulet. I know you cheated.
Yeah. And I thought you might wanna see what a real magical amulet looks like. Zecora gave it to me. It's from beyond the Everfree Forest, and it's way more powerful than your measly little Alicorn Amulet!
Care to put your amulet where your mouth is? How about another duel?
That's up to you! But I guess you'll never see the totally awesome magic from beyond the Everfree Forest. Come on, Zecora.
Let's.
No problem. Um, Applejack, Rarity? Could you help me, please?
That's nothing!
Duplication spell. Ever see one pony play ten instruments?
Ooh, one more. I can turn a mare into a stallion.
Well, Trixie, looks like my amulet is more powerful than yours<U+0096> Hey! Give it back!
By the way, Trixie, the amulet around your neck? It's one of Zecora's doorstops.
You're right. Not even me. Zecora taught me so much about magic while I was in exile. She even taught me when not to use it. My magic alone wasn't powerful enough to take on the Alicorn Amulet head to head, so I needed to use a different kind of magic <U+0096> the magic of friendship. I also knew that the only pony who could get the amulet off your neck was you.
That's not magic. That was just Pinkie Pie.
Trixie?
Hmmm. Sure.
Pinkie Pie, you're more nervous than Rainbow Dash.
Well, if you're so worried, then why don't you send her a letter first?
Pinkie Pie, I'm sure Rainbow Dash still remembers our faces and who we are. But I think sending her a care package is a great idea.
I'll go!
Hold on!
I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash. I know how much this meant to you.
Huh. That's not that many.
Princess Celestia obviously thinks I can or she would never have assigned them to me. I'm not planning on letting her down.
Actually, Spike, why don't you take the day off?
Why not? These books are gonna keep me busy for a while.
Mm-hmm...
Mm-hmm...
Sounds good.
Agh!
No, it's okay, I need to take a break anyway. What's going on?
Wait, what?
Um, maybe a little...
Oh, Applejack, I wish I could, but this is dragon code we're talking about. Surely you know how important the dragon code is to a dragon!
Hm, there's only one other way Spike is gonna fulfill the debt he feels he owes you.
I'll do my best.
What happened to you guys back there? Thought you were right behind us!
Thanks, Spike.
Don't know what I'd do without you.
Oh...
I'm surprised she's not here yet.
And where are Applejack and Fluttershy?
She's bringing an important visitor. That could be part of it.
Yeah, right. That's Discord.
With all due respect, Princess Celestia, how could you bring Discord here?! Your majesty.
I suppose we can just use the Elements of Harmony against him again if it gets out of hand.
Okay, ponies, guess it's time to get started. Let's just hope this releasing spell works.
We'd best keep our elements on at all times 'til further notice.
What do you think you're doing?!
How'd you know about that?!
Well, unless you want us to turn you back to stone, you'll zap those animals back the way they were, pronto!
If it turns out we need to use our elements against you, I'm sure we can convince Princess Celestia it was for a good reason!
You sure you're okay with this?
You do?
And you really think that'll work?
Okay, but if you need us, all you need to do is whisper "help", and we'll be back here with our elements. So watch that goat-legged step of yours, pal!
That's what she said.
And I think I know just the trick.
That's weird. The spell I had in mind isn't in here. Spike, where are the other books I asked you to pull?
I really want to have a reforming spell up and running pronto.
Princess Celestia cast a spell protecting them, remember? Uh-oh.
Fluttershy! Fluttershy, can you hear me?
Fluttershy, what's going on? Are you okay?!
We've come to get you away from Discord! He's just terrible and, from the looks of it, completely out of control!
He ate them?! Ugggghhhh!
And you believed him?
Alright. Dinner it is.
Fluttershy thinks this is the way to reform Discord and asked us to give it a chance.
Hang on to your elements, girls. It's gonna be a bumpy night.
There's something fishy going on.
He fixes this or he goes back to being stone! Princess Celestia will understand!
You were right when you said Fluttershy would be the one to find the way to reform Discord. By treating Discord as a friend, she got him to realize that friendship was actually important to him. And something that, once he had, he didn't want to lose.
I don't remember seeing critters on the invite list.
Oh, really?
That would be nice. You sure you don't already have your hands full?
You absolutely sure you can do this?
Yeah, like keeping an eye on a house full of critters.
I think this car's empty.
I'm sure he's having a great time watching all the critters back at home.
If he's staying calm and collected, I bet he's doing a terrific job as a leader.
I've gotta hand it to you, Spike. You did a really good job of taking care of the animals.
So what are you thinking? Bake 'em into a jewel pie? Ooh, six-layer gem cake sounds pretty good!
You absolutely sure you can do this?
Yeah, like keeping an eye on a house full of critters.
Exactly. Princess Cadance is counting on us to do our part to convince the Games Inspector to choose the Crystal Empire. And we are not gonna let her down. Are we?
One more time from the top.
Cadance said the Games Inspector really puts folks through the wringer on her visits. There's no margin for error here. And this time we need to practice the steps.
This must be why we were asked to handle the welcome committee routine.
We're here.
Pinkie, no!
Pinkie Pie! Honestly!
Rainbow Dash!
See? No worries!
How long before Cadance is ready?
Can you have her back at the castle when we're done?
Okay, we'll be fine. Everypony, just be on the look out for the pony with the flower print luggage.
We bring the Games Inspector back to the castle, put on our big welcome committee how-do-you-do and then...
What do you mean?
Be cool. Well, I know you're not expecting us, but we're here to personally welcome you to the Crystal Empire.
Uh, well, um... yes!
None other!
See that? We just gotta roll with it until the Princess gets there and we'll be just fine.
Please, have a seat, won't you?
Oh, well... we were just about to start.
We'd like to thank you for this opportunity to introduce you to this wonderful kingdom!
And since we're not even from here ourselves, who better than us to let you know just how welcoming this place can be!
That's fantastic! Princess Cadance would be so glad to hear that!
Of course she does! She's been looking forward to your visit for weeks!
Uh...
Dash! We've hardly ever even been here before!
Fine. You all start giving her the tour, and I'll go see what's keeping Cadance.
Hello there!
We finished the welcome committee song and we just wanted to introduce Ms. Harshwhinny to<U+0096>
I need to speak to the Princess.
Come on, how bad can it be?
Ew.
There's a bit of a problem with her headdress. How's it going here?
She's getting bored, and we have to buy Rarity some more time. I'll see if Shining Armor can come help. Can't one of you other ponies take over in the meantime?
Hello there! Shining Armor, you've gotta help me.
I left the other ponies behind giving the Games Inspector the worst castle tour ever.
I know, I'm not worried. I'm not worried... it worked!
What's going on?
You... are Ms. Harshwhinny, the Equestria Games Inspector, aren't you?
There's got to be another pony with flower print luggage around here somewhere.
We've gotta find her before Cadance finds out what a mess we've made of things.
We'll still be able to come back here and watch the games when they're played.
I'm sure he's having a great time watching all the critters back at home.
If he's staying calm and collected, I bet he's doing a terrific job as a leader.
Morning in Ponyville shimmers Morning in Ponyville shines And I know for absolute certain That everything is certainly fine
My Ponyville is so gentle and still Can things ever go wrong? I don't think that they will
Rainbow Dash, that's not funny!
Something tells me everything is not going to be fine.
What are you doing? What happened to your cutie mark?
Where is Rainbow Dash? Why isn't she handling this?
Rainbow Dash! Why is Rarity doing your job?
And what in Equestria is going on in... here?
This is bad. This is very, very bad.
Last night when you were taking one of your seven-hour bubble baths, I got a special delivery from the princess.
Dear Twilight Sparkle,
I cast the spell so I could find out what it was, but nothing seemed to happen. But now I know something did happen. The spell has changed the Elements of Harmony! That must be why their cutie marks are all wrong!
Oh. There is no counter-spell!
It's not their memories, Spike. It's their true selves that have been altered!
That won't work either...
No, Spike. They're not who they are meant to be anymore. Their destinies are now changed, and it's all my fault.
I have to find a way To make this all okay I can't believe this small mistake Could've caused so much heartache
Oh, Spike, what have I done?
You're right, Spike. And they mean more to me than anything. My friends...
I've got it! I know what to do!
I may not be able to remind them of who they are, but I can show them what they mean to each other. They'll find the part of themselves that's been lost so they can help the friend they care about so much! Come on, Spike!
Fluttershy, wait!
Where are you going?
Before you go, I was wondering if you might be willing to help Rainbow Dash. She's really struggling with her animals.
But you do know something about Rainbow Dash.
Rainbow Dash!
No. Fluttershy, you're the only one who can help! Rainbow Dash needs you!
Fluttershy, look! Your cutie mark!
It worked! It worked! Oh, I'm so happy you're back to normal! Now we need your help!
Rarity needs your help She's trying hard, doing what she can
There's no time to explain, but we need your help. Applejack's trying to make dresses!
Rarity, Pinkie Pie is about to lose the apple farm. We need Applejack's help!
The townspeople are furious. We need the old Pinkie Pie back.
A mark of one's destiny, singled out alone, fulfilled. Wait a second, that's it! I understand now! I know how to fix the spell!
Hello? Where am I? What is this place?
Princess... I don't understand. What did I do?
Ready? Ready for what?
A... A princess?
But... does this mean I won't be your student anymore?
But... what do I do now? Is there a book about being a princess I should read?
Oh. Um... A little while ago, my teacher and mentor Princess Celestia sent me to live in Ponyville. She sent me to study friendship, which is something I didn't really care much about. But now, on a day like today, I can honestly say I wouldn't be standing here if it weren't for the friendships I've made with all of you. Each one of you taught me something about friendship, and for that, I will always be grateful. Today, I consider myself the luckiest pony in Equestria. Thank you, friends. Thank you, everypony!
Are you crying?
I love you too, girls!
Life in Equestria shimmers Life in Equestria shines And I know for absolute certain
Yes! Everything<U+0092>s going to be just fine!
Whoa!
Whoa! Oof!
Applejack, you know you don't have to call me that.
If other ponies want to address me that way, I suppose it's fine, but... not my friends. It just doesn't feel right. And neither does all this flying business. The Summer Sun Celebration is only two days away, and I'm never gonna be ready to perform my part.
I suppose.
And I'm honored. Really, I am. It's just that the Summer Sun Celebration is what first brought us all together. It just doesn't feel right not getting to spend such a special day with my Ponyville friends.
I can't help it, Spike. They've only been gone a minute, and I already feel like I'm missing something.
But I am. I just know it.
So do I.
That would be nice, Spike, but what if something else came up while we were gone? What if we were delayed getting back and I wasn't able to finish everything on that list? What if we lost the list on the way to Ponyville and then couldn't remember which things we'd done and which things we hadn't done, and then spent so much time trying to figure out what we hadn't done and what we had done, and we ruined the entire Celebration by not doing the one really important thing that we were supposed to do?!
These are the first royal duties Princess Celestia has given me. I can't risk letting her down!
Sorry.
Sorry!
What do you mean?
I guess I never really thought about it that way.
Maybe a little.
Never mind. It's not important. Spike, where were we?
We should probably go over the checklist one more time.
Huh?! Spike?
Spike!
It's the middle of the night! But it could be morning. That's just it! I can't tell!
Come on, Spike, we have to find out what's going on.
I'm-I'm sure it's just... Well, there's certainly a logical ex<U+0096>
But I don't understand! Where are they?
My command?!
The Everfree Forest is... 'invading'. Whatever is going on, I'm sure we're going to need our friends and the Elements of Harmony to stop it! I just hope we haven't missed the train...
There is?
Oh. Right!
Whoa!
Almost there! Come on, Spike, we need to get the Elements of Harmony and find the others!
Whoa! Aah!
Okay, I get it! I need to work on my flying!
Not exactly. You see, Princess Celestia is, well... she and Princess Luna are both...
I don't know who has taken them, but I've got a hunch we're going to need the Elements of Harmony to get them back.
Hmm...
Half day, half night... strange weather patterns... out of control plants. I think I'm starting to get a pretty good idea of who we're up against.
E-nough! Release Princess Celestia and Princess Luna, and stop the Everfree Forest from invading!
If you're not the one responsible, then help us figure out who is!
Rrrgh!
Zecora!
Doesn't seem to be worki-
Where am I?
Princess Luna! I don't understand. Where are we? Why did you and Celestia disappear?
Precious light?
The Everfree Forest is... invading. I think I'm starting to get a pretty good idea of who we're up against.
Princess Luna!
Luna! Think of how long you were banished to the moon! You'll give us no choice but to send you back there if you don't stop!
Celestia!
No... Why would Luna do this? Why now? You're all right. You're all right! Princess Celestia?
Are those the Elements of Harmony? But that's how they looked in... the past. This is the night you banished her.
Why are you all looking at me like that?
I saw something from a long time ago. But it didn't explain what's happening now.
This must be when they turned Discord into stone.
The Tree of Harmony? My cutie mark.
I still don't know what's happened to Princess Luna and Princess Celestia, but I think I know why the Everfree Forest is acting this way. Something's happened to the Tree of Harmony.
It's where Princess Celestia and Princess Luna found the Elements. I think it's in danger.
I think it's in... there.
Seems like only yesterday I was foolish enough to think I should go after them on my own. I don't know what we're going to face in there. But whatever it is, I know we need to face it together.
That was close.
I'm fine. I just can't seem to get these new wings to do what I want them to do when I want them to do it.
"Eventually" isn't soon enough.
What? Why?
We all did. He wasn't after just me.
What's that got to do with anything?
But the Tree of Harmony! I'm the only one who has seen it and knows what it looks like.
All of you feel this way? Feel like I shouldn't be here?
Discord!
We ran into some trouble. And my friends decided it would be best if I returned to Ponyville while they continue the search. Equestria will need me if Princess Celestia and Princess Luna don't return.
I don't think I'm better than anypony!
I never should have agreed to come back here.
Well, it's working!
I don't know where we are. We're lost. I never should have left my friends.
Not as glad as I am that you found me.
I know how we can save the tree. We have to give it the Elements of Harmony.
You're right about one thing, Applejack. The Elements of Harmony did bring us together. But it isn't the Elements that will keep us connected. It's our friendship. And it's more important and more powerful than any magic. My new role in Equestria may mean I have to take on new responsibilities, and our friendships may be tested, but it will never, ever be broken. There's no time to lose. Everypony ready?
What's inside it? How am I supposed to open it?
What did you say?!
You realize this is information we could have used hours ago?!
Ugh, I've gone through every book in Ponyville, Spike, and there isn't a single mention of the mysterious chest that came from the Tree of Harmony, nor anything about keys to unlock it! But something tells me that opening it is pretty important. I hope Princess Celestia has some ideas. If the library in Canterlot doesn't have anything, I-I don't know where else to look!
My dearest Twilight, while it would be perfectly lovely to have you in Canterlot once more, I have another option in mind much closer to Ponyville.
Wow! Look at all these ancient books! It's a veritable goldmine of information! I can't believe it! Woo-hoo!
Are you kidding? This place is perfect!
Oh, these aren't for you, Spike. We're gonna be studying late into the night, and we're gonna need all the light we can get.
Find anything, Spike?
Angel? What are you doing here?
Whoa! The Journal of the Two Sisters. Maybe this is the book Princess Celestia was talking about!
Spike, you've got to hear this. I love to duck behind the paintings, and though the Hall of Hooves still gives her a bit of a fright, the trap door slide is Luna's favorite.
Soon the Organ to the Outside will be finished. I can hardly wait.
I have no idea!
Oh, Spike. Quit being such a scaredy-dragon. This castle is thousands of years old, and half of it was destroyed by Nightmare Moon. Of course it makes strange sounds. It's practically falling apart!
What in the world is that?!
No one likes sarcasm, Spike.
Alright, everypony, stop!
Have you all spent the whole night running around, scaring each other?
On what?
Oh, that's just an old ponies' tale.
We're going to find out.
The Pony of Shadows!
See? What'd I tell ya?
Well, it's good to know that whenever your imagination is getting away from you, a good friend can help you rein it in. And even though I didn't find anything out about the mysterious chest, I'm glad I was here to help all of you.
Reading Celestia's diary made it hard to be afraid, because I knew what it was like when she and Luna lived here. Knowing something about the past made it easier to deal with my problems in the present, even the scary ones.
I've just thought of a great idea! Why don't we keep a journal, just like the royal pony sisters?
Sure! That way we can learn from each other! And maybe some day, other ponies will read it and learn something, too!
So glad you've finally made it!
Oh, haven't you heard? The release of the next book got pushed another two months.
The publisher just said author A.K. Yearling won't be able to finish the book for another two months. Cupcakes?
I'm just as big a fan as you! In fact, I'm the one who first introduced you to the books, remember?
A.K. Yearling just might be my favorite author. I know everything about her. Where she grew up, where she studied literature, where she wrote the first Daring Do book...
Uh... no, though I could probably find out somehow. Why?
Hmm, I don't know... What she probably wants most of all is respect for her privacy.
Mmh... I suppose you're right...
You see what I mean? Why would she live in this remote part of Equestria except to keep folks from intruding on her privacy? We should respec<U+0097>
Wait! Oh no. What happened?
Oh no! What if something terrible happened to her?
We didn't do this! We swear!
We're awfully glad to see you're alright.
Rainbow Dash, a minute please! A.K. Yearling has made it pretty clear that she wants to be left alone. We need to respect her wishes!
A.K. Yearling and Daring Do are one and the same! My mind is officially blown!
I know, but she refused! I can't believe it! The real Daring Do and the real Caballeron!
You heard her! She says she works alone!
True, but in book four, she defeated Ahuizotl and secured control of the Amulet of Atonement, dispelling the dark magic of the Ketztwctl Empress, and thus protecting the basin with the Radiant Shield of Razdon!
But are you forgetting that the Rings were scattered to the four corners of Tenochtitlan, thus rendering the dark enchantment powerless?
Okay, but sounds to me like we're in way, way, way over our heads. We're going to need a carefully thought out plan...
That's not a plan!
Quick, where does it hurt?
Dash, I'm sure whatever you did was an honest mistake.
Look, there is more going on here than meets the eye. In every Daring Do book, there always is! We can't turn our backs on her!
Perhaps. But she might need it anyway.
It's fine to look up to Daring Do, but you've put her so high up on a pedestal, you can't even see your own worth anymore! She's in the fortress, and we're here, and we wouldn't be who we are if we didn't go in after her! And neither would you! So, are you with us, or not?
Spike, you really need to go to sleep!
"The Mane-iac"?
Hum Drum?
Believe me, Spike. If anypony understands what it's like to get caught up in a really good book, it's me. But if we're going to make any progress fixing up Luna and Celestia's old castle tomorrow, we all have to do our part. We don't want to be too tired to lend a hoof... or claw.
Two more minutes.
Looking good, everypony! Let's keep this magical makeover moving!
I think she's right. It looks like we've got it, Spike. Looking great, everypony! Why don't you find a quiet spot and finish reading your comic? Aren't you right at the part where Hum Drum was about to stop the villain?
Rarity, lemme give you a hoof with that!
That's okay, Spike.
Spike! What are you<U+0097>
Do what?
Good thing you're not really Hum Drum, then.
Spike, where is the Mane-iac building her doomsday device?
All right, Power Ponies, here's the plan. Rarity, you, me and<U+0097>
So much for "element of surprise".
Freeze ray!
Nice work, Power Ponies! Now let's take care of the Mane-iac and get ourselves home!
Maybe in your world. But in our world, Spike<U+0097> uh, Hum Drum always comes through when we need him! Always!
Way to go, Spike!
We wouldn't have made it without you, Spike. And I hope you realize that just because we don't always need your help, it doesn't mean that we don't think you're helpful.
But I do have one question. Where exactly did you get that comic book?
But I thought the fruit bats usually stayed put in the west orchard.
I'm sorry, Fluttershy, but I think Applejack is right. I just wish there was another way we could convince them not to eat them in the first place. Maybe there is...!
So, there's good news and bad news. The good news is that I found a spell that can get the vampire fruit bats to stop wanting to suck the juice from the apples. But in order for the spell to work, I need the bats' full and complete attention.
Fluttershy, I need you to do your Stare on the bats.
But if we don't do this, there won't be any apples left for anypony here in Ponyville. Doesn't that feel wrong, too?
Alright.
You can stop staring, Fluttershy.
The spell didn't work!
Who is? Fluttershy, you're our animal expert. Do you know of any other creature that might be capable of this?
Well, there's only one way to find out. We'll have to catch whoever it is in the act.
A stakeout...!
That's right. Nopony leaves this orchard until we've solved this mystery. Agreed?
Applejack, what is it?
We've gotta get her down from there!
Pinkie Pie, calm down! See? She's back on her... branch.
I think this was actually our fault.
Okay, so this is me, these are the bats, and this is Fluttershy doing her Stare. The spell was supposed to go right onto the bats like this, but somehow the spell must have backfired. It took the vampire fruit bats' desire to be vampire fruit bats and transferred that desire into Fluttershy. C'mon! We'll reverse the spell and make it right!
Oh, Fluttershy, where are you?
We'll never get her back unless we corner her and catch her so I can reverse the spell!
There she is!
Oh, this is no use. I think the only way we're gonna catch her is if we find a way to lure her closer to us.
That's it!
Okay, let's get our friend back. Action stations!
Of course we'd all come along to support you during Fashion Week, Rarity!
What's that?
You couldn't mean Hinny of the Hills... because that show's been sold out for months! Or could you?!
Oh, Rarity, you didn't have to do that, but... since you did...
Wow, Rarity! How'd you manage to get us seats for tomorrow night?
Is there anything left to do we can help you with?
Please won't you let her have this taxi? She has somewhere very important to be right away!
Oh, it's no use! The cab drivers just drive right past to get to the next pony in line!
Oh, my gosh, what a great afternoon! That was almost too much fun!
Now, Rarity, whatever went wrong, we're all here to help you get through it, no matter what it takes.
You said if we skipped dinner at the Far-Afield Tavern, you'd order a meal for us while we keep working.
Rarity, calm down. What's gotten into you?
There. That's the last of them.
You're welcome!
We missed the show because we overslept. Suri told us you lost. I'm really sorry.
Last night we may not have seen you at your best, but we know you. And we would never let one thing like that change how we feel about you.
How did you ever get them to agree to do an extra performance just for us?
Aaagh!
Just some genealogical research.
Maybe you should pick one from the... top?
Good luck! It was nice of you to be part of the team that doesn't have... uh... the strongest flyers.
Ponyville is very lucky to have you.
And, um, I'm with her! Hooray!
Some ponies do what?
It's not easy practicing with two teams, is it?
No. They're too busy practicing to wonder why you keep disappearing.
It just seems like one of the teams you're practicing with needs a little more help than the other one.
If you fly for Cloudsdale, Pinkie Pie won't have anypony to cheer for. Rarity's uniforms will never be seen. And Applejack will have slaved over those apple brown bettys for nothing.
I think this is a decision you have to make on your own. The race is tomorrow, so you'd better make it soon.
So, the medic pony isn't sure what's wrong with you.
I think Rainbow Dash might need to rest some more.
You know, choosing not to choose isn't really a decision.
Even with Rainbow Dash's replacement, I don't think we're gonna qualify. No offense.
Is that Rainbow Dash... walking?
Go, Fluttershy! Woo-hoo!
Equestria Games, here we come!
Please be a yes, please be a yes, please be a yes... Yes! She can make it, she can make it!
I'm finally gonna get to spend some quality time with my sister-in-law! This is the best news ever!
Wow, Fluttershy, that's fantastic!
Have a great time!
Oh, I'm a bit nervous about Cadance's visit!
I know, but I really want her visit to go without a hitch!
Well, the last three times we've seen each other haven't exactly been worry-free.
Exactly. Cadance and I haven't really had a chance to just enjoy being friends again. Which is why it is so important that this visit be about the two of us having some real quality time together.
The timing couldn't be more perfect. For one day only, right here in Ponyville, the Star Swirl the Bearded Traveling Museum! Cadance and I can spend the whole day looking at Star Swirl the Bearded artifacts!
Not counting the drama surrounding which of the bells from his cloak they've chosen to put on display. Spoiler alert: it's this one!
Exactly. Just quiet time.
Your Highness.
Boy, have I. Hang on just one second. You guys-
You really are the best friends a pony could ever have. Coming, Cadance!
A whole day to celebrate Star Swirl the Bearded. What could be better?
It sure is!
Discord! What are you doing here?!
Good thinking.
Stay? With me?! Uh, now is not really the best time, though I'm sure you already knew that...
No, that is not what I'm saying.
Guess we don't have much choice.
Need anything else?
A crystal cruet?
Anything else?
Right, but<U+0097>
Alright, this is ridiculous!
There must be some way to just cure you! There has to be a spell or remedy in one of my books!
I suppose you have a good reason you didn't bother to get this flower as soon as you realized you were sick?
So where exactly are Cadance and I headed?
Doing okay there?
I'm really sorry about this. All I wanted was to have some peaceful quality time together.
This is the top. But where is that flower? Oh. Come on, if we hurry, we can still have some time together.
Phew! Let's get Discord and this flower back home, then all our problems are solved-
Get your coils off my sister-in-law!
Thanks!
Just... a little... more!
Are you okay?
Then let's get Discord back to Ponyville, make that elixir, and finally get a chance to spend some quality time together.
You... were... faking?!
We're listening.
I don't even know where you li-
I have never considered myself t-
I'm not more-
It is?
I think it's pretty clear that my visit with Cadance didn't go quite the way I expected. But in the end, I realized that when you're with a good friend, even the most chaotic day can end up being a great experience that brings you closer. Wouldn't you agree, Discord?
No!
Wow, look at her go!
We're so lucky to have you here.
Pinkie! Aren't you gonna help Cheese Sandwich plan the party?
Really?
I can't believe it!
And the loser?
Um, Pinkie? It's already 3 o'clock.
All right, everypony. According to my official goof off rulebook...
The two competitors have free range to goof about -- be it by singing, dancing, playing, prancing, joking, or performing -- to make the judge chortle, chuckle, giggle, guffaw, hoot and holler, whoop it up, and party down.
The funnier, sillier, wilder, and goofier, the better. Rainbow Dash, since the winner will be headlining your party, you are the judge.
Cheese Sandwich, Pinkie Pie, are you ready?
Then... Let the goofing begin!
But, what about you, Pinkie?
We all are.
I didn't know Granny Smith was on the selection committee.
Congratulations, Rarity! Do you know what you're gonna do?
Me too. I'm glad Rarity was picked. I know she'll add a touch of elegance to the whole thing!
Wow, Rarity. You really have put a lot of effort into this.
Of course!
Sounds like somepony has a little bit of a crush.
It's no problem, but you shouldn't be nervous about meeting him.
Uhh... I'm not sure.
Rarity, you have to get a hold of yourself. I mean, you haven't even met him yet!
What's wrong?
Well, go up and talk to him!
Applejack, what's going on?
Rarity, you aren't serious, are you?
Wow, I've never heard you sing a solo like that before!
Why not, Fluttershy?
Stage fright isn't a disease, Pinkie. It just means that Fluttershy is scared to perform in front of everypony.
Where's Fluttershy?
Pony Tones! That was truly amazing!
Fluttershy? You in here?
What Pinkie meant to say is that you were really great!
Well, what was so bad about it?
How do you feel?
Uh, Sweetie Belle, maybe we should run through the steps another few times before you try it on your own.
Okay then!
Maybe not. But I'm happy to keep helping you learn just for the fun of it as long as you like.
Scootaloo, I already told you I won't show you how, but I'll help you find the instructions so you can figure it out yourself.
To your left, third shelf from the bottom. You'll find it in no time.
Always glad to pass on my love of learning for learning's sake.
Did you follow the magic plant-growing formula I gave you?
Well, let's try it out on this apple seedling and see how we do.
Hey there, guys! Come on in!
Oh, and, uh, you brought guests. Great!
Actually, it's not dyed. I've always<U+0096>
Listen, I'm all for helping as many ponies as I can, but maybe we should keep these weekly visits just between us, hm? Okay, which one of you wants to practice first?
No, silly! I set up Twilight Time especially for you. Apple Bloom, go ahead. Let's see how your plant potions are coming.
Mmm! Mmmm, mm! I didn't realize how hungry I was! I'm so glad you asked me to join you here today... I'm so honored! Mm!
When you first asked me to help you develop new skills, I thought, 'Working with young students so devoted to the joy of learning purely for its own sake? What could be better?' You all remind me of myself when I was your age!
I know. I've been so busy I forgot how delicious everything is here!
Uh, can I... help you?
You seriously all want my autograph? Okay, I'll sign just a couple more for you, but then I really must get back to my little friends. Oh, there you are!
This isn't my regular hangout. I'm only here to be with them.
Thanks, guys, this was fun! See ya around!
Oh, don't be silly. I only meant that for your benefit so you could get the most out of our time together. But if you want to share your time with others, that's fine.
Of course not! Come on in, everypony! Spike made nachos!
Turns out we'll need some more than that.
Before we start, we should maybe get a bit more organized? Ponies interested in magic in this corner. Ponies who want to learn potions over here. Bookworm ponies over there.
Thanks to all of you for taking time out to come learn new things.
Okay, okay, let's settle down. If you want to thank anypony, thank the Cutie Mark Crusaders for so generously sharing this time.
Let's begin over here. And what would you like to learn, little one?
And why do you want to become a Cutie Mark Crusader so badly, hm?
Is this true?
Prove it.
If it's true, then I'm sure you've all been practicing your skills over the past week. Show me how much better you got.
Hm, I see.
Looks like Twilight Time is over.
Well, neither did any of you.
Sweetie Belle? Remember a moment ago when you asked me to give you a chance?
Wow, all three of you have made so much progress! I'm really proud of you. See you next time!
What?! I-
Everypony, it's time. Please welcome... the Breezies!
I, for one, am very proud of you, Fluttershy. Leaping into action like that.
We just wanted to see if you thought the Breezies were ready to give it another try.
But they're not going to a cruel world, right? They're going home.
We'll just wait for your word.
I've been studying an old spell book from the Castle of the Two Sisters. There's a spell that I think could help us! This is probably gonna feel a little funny at first, but you're gonna have to trust me.
Okay, gather round.
Not a chance.
What is all this?
Maud is your sister. I'm sure she'll love your rock candy. And I'm pretty sure you've made enough. She's only staying for the week.
I think we're all a little nervous about Maud's visit. She's Pinkie Pie's sister, and it's obvious Pinkie really wants us to hit it off. Being able to make those rock candy necklaces together is really important to her. I'm sure everything will be fine<U+0096>
Where's Maud?
That's... really fascinating, isn't it, girls? We're just so thrilled you could come for a visit before your big trip. Pinkie Pie has told us so much about you. I'm Twilight, and this is Applejack, Fluttershy, Rainbow Dash, and Rarity.
Any luck?
It'll hurt Maud's feelings if we all stop playing. Besides, look how much fun Pinkie Pie's having.
Just a little longer, okay?
Come on, girls. I'm sure Maud was just nervous about meeting all of us.
Exactly. It must be awfully intimidating to meet all of us at once, especially since we're already such good friends.
Maybe if we spend some time with her one-on-one to try to get to know her better, I'm sure we'll be making those best friend rock candy necklaces in no time.
I've got lots of poetry. Do you read anything by Quilland Ink? Or Flourish Prose?
Oh, I'd love to hear some of it!
Well, I'm not sure it's the best time to make best friend rock candy necklaces.
Uh...
If we didn't tell Pinkie Pie that we hadn't all become the best of friends, I think Maud would have.
Pinkie Pie, what is that?!
I can't believe Maud cut her trip short.
That's it! I think I finally realized what we all have in common with Maud! Something that just might be worthy of a very important super-duper special tradition that only the closest and bestest of friends can share!
Pinkie Pie, we're so sorry we hurt your feelings by not bonding with Maud right away. And Maud, we're sorry that you felt the only way to spare Pinkie Pie's feelings was to leave Ponyville early.
Pinkie Pie's happiness means as much to us as it does to you, and we're sorry we couldn't see it sooner. The thing that makes us click and creates a special bond between us is how much we all love Pinkie Pie!
That's a pretty great thing to have in common, if you ask me. What do you think, Maud?
Maud, we'd like to give you something to take on your trip, so that you remember all your friends from Ponyville.
Are those all the necklaces Pinkie Pie sent you?
You haven't eaten any of them?
The magical properties of this spell will only have lasting effects if you focus on<U+0097>
No! Rainbow Dash! How in Equestria does that pony expect to pass her history of the Wonderbolts exam tomorrow if she's wasting time flying?! I'm just gonna fly right up to her and tell her what I think about her lackadaisical approach to studying! Won't she be surprised!
What? Huh? How did you<U+0097>
Wha? But<U+0097>
Well, if you heard me "muttering", then you must know what I was "muttering" about.
No. Big deal. Really big deal. It's a test! A test that will determine if you can join the newly-formed Wonderbolts Reserves, and being part of the Wonderbolts Reserves means you'll have the opportunity to live your dream as a Wonderbolt! This is the most important test of your life!
I do not get "all freaked out" about tests!
Fine, I may tend to take my tests a little seriously, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't be studying for yours! Oooh! And I know just the pony who can help you: me! This is gonna be so much fun!
This is the most complete<U+0097>
<U+0097>book on the history of the Wonderbolts.
With my handy-dandy study checklist, of course!
First up, reading and highlighting. Reading and highlighting is the foundation of any good study method. It allows the student to hone in and boil down on what's really important, separating the good from the bad, the wheat from the chaff, getting to the crux of things. Let's see what you've got so far!
Huh? Hm, by highlighting everything, you don't really separate the wheat from the chaff... Or the good from the bad. Hey, I am not that tall!
Okay, Rainbow, clearly reading and highlighting is not your style of studying, so let's move on to the tried and true: History lecture! Yes, Rainbow?
No.
No.
No! Now, just get comfortable, and experience the magic of learning. Ahem. Prior to the great Celestia/Luna rift, there was no need for the Earth, Unicorn, Pegasi, or E.U.P., Guard.
But after Luna's banishment, the Protective Pony Platoons were formed. On the anniversary of the first Celestial year of peace, a celebration was held.
Headed by General Firefly, an elite team of aerial performers were chosen to help celebrate this auspicious occasion. The first performance was so full of energy, so highly charged, that magical lightning showered down on the crowd. Everypony was so filled with amazement and wonder that General Firefly dubbed them "the Wonderbolts"!
Rainbow Dash, can you repeat any of my lesson?
History lecture... nope. Okay, Rainbow<U+0096> Rainbow? Rainbow Dash!
Let's move on to my favorite style of learning: flashcards!
One can only hope. Colonel Purple Dart, the leader of the Wonderbolts in the Fourth Celestial Era, was known for his<U+0096> wha?! Rainbow! Did you see what happened?
Hmm... After becoming the official flying squadron for Princess Celestia, she honored them with<U+0096> Gotcha!
The original Wonderbolts lightning bolt insignia was<U+0096> Rainbow Dash, you could've hurt me!
A spit wad to the eye would have been no laughing matter!
Well, if you can horse around like this, then you clearly must be ready for the test.
Well then, I guess you're also ready for a...
Pop quiz!
The initials E.U.P. stand for what?
The original aerial team performed for...?
The Wonderbolts were given their name by this famous Pegasus. Who is she? Please don't say Colonel Waffle...
Or what. You didn't get one answer correct.
I don't know. I've never heard answers so wrong! And so breakfast-related!
If you had taken the official test today...
My fault?! I'm the one helping you!
Excuse me, I've used them to study for many a test and passed!
Do you know the name of the premiere Wonderbolts choreographer?
Commander Easyglider. Do you know how many Pegasi flew in the original squad?
Seven! Do you know Princess Celestia's favorite flight pattern?! The Icaranian Sun Salutation! See? I could pass the test.
Knowing their origin and being able to properly represent them for all of Equestria is just as important.
Knowing history actually is beneficial, Rainbow.
Well, this egghead knows history and can fly. Maybe I should become a Wonderbolt.
Sorry.
I've tried everything, Fluttershy, but none of my study methods work for her.
They're the E.U.P., helping to protect the Princess.
And of course you recognize Commander Easyglider.
Look at us.
Oh, I think we should just go back to old-fashioned studying.
Pinkie, stop rapping! That isn't gonna help Rainbow!
Rainbow, I'm sorry about all that! We didn't mean to overwhelm you!
You are not dumb! You just learn differently!
No, that's totally wrong.
I don't know anypony that's read more Daring Do books than you.
And your knowledge of jokes and pranks is only rivaled by Pinkie.
That's not what I meant. You're smart, creative, inventive, and<U+0096> ugh! Hey! I know you're upset, but you don't need to<U+0097>
Whoa... I almost slammed into that!
But how did you notice? You were listening and talking to me the whole time!
While you fly?
Really?
Oh, my gosh!
Gotta go!
Thanks for meeting me, everypony.
We have to help Rainbow Dash.
But we haven't tried Rainbow Dash's way.
Hey, Rainbow. Wanna go for a fly?
Yes, but like you said, I'm such a newbie, I need all the practice I can get.
So... what's going on?
Uh... read any good books lately?
Oh, come on now, Rainbow. You can't give up on your dream!
Or maybe you'll be a Wonderbolt.
So, what do you remember about that flight?
Yes...?
Uh-huh...?
Yes!
You learned it!
Well, on our first flight, I discovered that you catalog everything that happens all around you when you're flying, without even thinking about it! Don't you see?
I made use of your special skills by enlisting everypony to help you learn the history of the Wonderbolts!
You're welcome, but it all came from you. You learned without knowing you're learning. Your main focus is flying, but then your brain is also absorbing lots of other information! It's actually really brilliant!
Rainbow Dash finally learned the history of the Wonderbolts, but she's not the only pony that needed a lesson; I needed to learn something just as important. One way of learning isn't better than another. After all, every pony is unique and individual.
Please, it's not that big of a deal. There always has to be a princess at the Exchange. Last year was Princess Cadance, this year it's me. It's just a formality. I'm sure none of the other ponies will even notice I'm here.
I may be the princess on duty, but I don't think that means I have to sit up there all alone doing nothing. Ever since I became a princess, Celestia's been sending me more books to read than ever. The library's overflowing, so I figured while we're here, I might as well trade away some books I don't need anymore.
You want me to trade all my books for a broken pen? Alright, fine. You got yourself a<U+0096>
I was trying to get rid of all the books I don't need anymore.
Well, not really, but I'm running out of library space, so<U+0096>
What are you talking about?
Y'know, if you want to go check out the rest of the Exchange and trade whatever you brought...
Hey!
Uh, just a moment, please! Pinkie, I appreciate your help and all, but I'm not sure I'm comfortable with this. Nopony should trade for my books just because I'm a princess. I'm not better than anypony else!
Oh, yes, they are.
None of those ponies had anything valuable enough to trade for my books. Not because these books belong to a princess, but because they helped make me who I am. Just like you said. This was the one I was so absorbed in the day Spike decided he owed Applejack a life debt. And this one reminds me of the day I got it <U+0096> which was the day I met you. I may not ever need to read these again, but that doesn't mean they don't have value. I realize that now, thanks to you, Pinkie.
I've heard what you both have to say, and I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash, but my hooves are tied. You said it was a fair trade.
Well, what do you know? My copy of Daring Do and the Sapphire Statue. It's just a beat up old paperback, not a one-of-a-kind first edition...
Oh no, not you too!
Oh. Judging by that outfit, I thought for sure you'd<U+0096>
Hmm... Well, in that case, have you seen anypony suspicious around?
Spike. Never, ever, ever, ever take another book out of the library at the castle without asking! Princess Cadance and Princess Luna have much better things to do than help me clean up Ponyville! Do you have any idea how hard it was to reverse that much dark magic?!
Spike! Are you all right?
Last time you were here, you got the Crystal Heart to Princess Cadance in time to save this entire empire from destruction!
Isn't that awesome? You're a big shot here, Spike! See that? That's you!
Equestria, we have a problem.
Phew!
You three really were wonderful. But does anypony know what was going on with Spike?
Actually, it was me. I didn't want him to be embarrassed, so I cast a secret spell to light it for him.
No, but he might have figured it out on his own.
I know. I'm just afraid of how he'll take it. I know what pride he takes in a job well done.
Spike! Is everything okay?
Yeah, about that. I<U+0096>
Oh, phew! I was afraid you'd be upset.
Spike, may I have a word with you a moment?
No, because you can't!
I did it, Spike. I cast a spell to do it for you.
I'm sorry, Spike. I just couldn't stand to see you stuck like that! You understand, don't you?
Spike?
Actually, I was looking for Spike. Have you seen him?
Spike?
You here?
No more hiding out. You're coming with me. Now.
Honestly, Spike, I don't see why you're being so hard on yourself.
Are you kidding? I've totally let ponies down. That's not the point. The torch got lit, the aerial relay teams got their medals -- no harm, no foul.
Wait a second. I think I get it. You keep saying you let everypony down, but we all keep saying you didn't. You know who's disappointed in you, Spike? You. And only you can make it right with you again. What would that take, Spike?
Come on, Spike. You saved the Crystal Empire twice! I think you can light some fireworks.
I'm glad you all wanted to come, but I don't think it's gonna be that exciting. I pretty much just have to smile and wave as the dignitaries arrive.
It isn't.
I've just been feeling a little unsure about things lately. It doesn't seem that my new role as a princess equates to all that much.
I guess you're right.
Of course.
Is there anything else I can do to assist with their visit?
Oh.
I guess I just don't really understand why I'm here. Couldn't one of the royal guard have unfurled the banner?
And I'm happy to see you. All of you.
But I... well, it's just that Princess Luna raises the moon, Princess Celestia raises the sun, you protect the Crystal Empire, and all I seem to do is... smile and wave.
It isn't that I'm ungrateful For all the things that I've earned, For all the journeys I have taken, All the lessons that I have learned
But that was a long time ago. Why is he just now starting to steal magic?
Yes. I'll find him and<U+0096>
Yes!
He can sense when there's a magical imbalance. The next time Tirek steals magic, Discord will be able to track him down!
Nothing. Unless of course one of you needs me to smile and wave.
To the Castle of the Two Sisters. I'm not really needed anywhere else. Might as well catch up on some of my reading.
Maybe I could use a little company right now.
There's only one way to find out.
Anything?
There must be something in this library that can help me figure out how to open it. The answer's in one of these books. I just know it.
I think I found something! I've been reading our journal, and there's something interesting about the sections that Discord bookmarked. Applejack, do you remember when you had to tell everypony that the tonic Granny bought from the Flim Flam brothers didn't really work?
I've found that each of you has had to face a situation where living up to the Element of Harmony you represent wasn't easy. Fluttershy, it was when you realized that the way to show kindness to the Breezies was by forcing them to leave your home.
Rarity, even after Suri took advantage of your generosity at Fashion Week in Manehattan, you didn't let it cause you to abandon your generous spirit.
Rainbow Dash, you had the chance to fly with the Wonderbolts at the Equestria Games, but instead you chose to compete with your friends.
Pinkie Pie, you realized that seeing your friend laugh was more important than proving you were a better party planner than Cheese Sandwich.
All of you had tough choices to make. But when you made the right one and embraced your element, it helped somepony else make the right choice too. Each of you received something from the pony whose life you helped change. I know it sounds crazy, but maybe there's something special about those objects that could lead us to the location of the keys. The chest is connected to the Tree of Harmony, the Tree is connected to the Elements, and the Elements are connected to all of us. There must be a connection! I hate to admit it, but maybe Discord was trying to be a good friend after all.
I don't see anything on them that would give us a clue as to where the keys might be. They're just... ordinary, everyday objects.
I don't think that's going to work.
There's still one key missing. The key that represents the element of magic. My element.
I haven't. If I had, I would have written about it in the journal.
That I'm needed in Canterlot at once!
I came as quickly as I could! Is something wrong? Is it Tirek?
How could he do this?! I thought our friendship meant something to him! I thought he had changed.
It doesn't seem that my new role as a princess equates to all that much.
And there's something interesting about the sections that Discord bookmarked.
Each of you received something from the pony whose life you helped change.
There's still one key missing. My element.
I'm more than willing to do my part and give up my magic.
Why me?
Yes. It's just... I'm only now learning how to control my own Alicorn magic. To take on even more<U+0096>
Taking on this task will be one of the most difficult things I'll ever do, but with the help of my friends<U+0096>
This is the role I am meant to play as a princess of Equestria! I will not fail to do my duty!
That's strange. The sun should be up by now... The sun should be up by now! You can do this.
I have to gain better control. I sure can't practice here.
Oh, uh, hi, Spike. Uh, gotta go... somewhere... else.
Waaaaah! Whoa!
Yiiiipe!
Ooh!
I must have caught a particularly strong breeze... or something.
I don't know what happened, but I don't really have time to figure it out right now.
Not today!
Tirek may still be a threat. I need you all to stay here and encourage everypony to remain inside.
I can do this.
See! Ha! Perfectly controlled teleportation<U+0096>
Tirek!
I will give you my magic, in exchange for my friends.
All of my friends.
Release him!
We have to get to the chest.
Together! I think we have to do this together!
You're wrong, Tirek! I may have given you my Alicorn magic, but I carry within me the most powerful magic of all!
But... whose is it?
As princess, I believe I have the power to spread the magic of friendship across Equestria. That is the role I am meant to have in our world! The role I choose to have! But I didn't defeat Tirek on my own <U+0096> it took all of us to unlock the chest!
Each one of us has something special That makes us different, that makes us rare
Let the rainbow remind you That together we will always shine
Let's go through this one more time.
Yes, but why?
As princess, I've been chosen to spread the magic of friendship across Equestria. So why would the Tree of Harmony want us to sit in a castle in Ponyville? It doesn't make any sense.
I don't know. But it seems like the map wants us to find out. The Tree, the chest, this castle, and now the map. How can we not follow it?
Looks like it's time for a road trip.
That's it! That's the place on the map!
Wait. We don't know why the map sent us here. We shouldn't just walk right in. It could be dangerous.
Forget the smiles. Look at the cutie marks.
An entire village with the same cutie mark? How can that be?
What makes you say that?
We're not entirely sure.
If you don't mind, has there been any sort of... trouble here, lately?
Yes, but "Twilight" is fine.
It's kind of a long story. Let's just say we found it on a map.
Is that why you all have those cutie marks?
I'm sorry, I guess we're just a little confused by all of this.
When we were sent to this village, we assumed it was to help in some way. But, well, it doesn't seem like you need any help.
A cutie mark is a representation of a pony's unique talents and skills. How is it possible to<U+0097>
Uh, no! We're good! Fluttershy's right. If we're going to get to the bottom of why the map sent us here, we'll need the help of these ponies.
Maybe you're right. But we're here now, and it sure feels like something's wrong.
Then I guess we'll take six muffins!
Come on, girls. We've got to stick together. It doesn't matter what happened before, we're here now.
We are friends. A simple disagreement wouldn't change that.
Let's all sit here and eat these muffins and act normal. I think we're being watched.
No, not like that! I mean somepony here doesn't want us talking to Sugar Belle.
Nice work, Pinkie.
Hello? Sugar Belle?
Why did you want us to come down here?
How do you take somepony's cutie mark anyway?
But nopony should keep you from your cutie mark. It represents such an essential part of who you are.
Can we visit this cave?
This must be the reason we're here.
No, helping those ponies get their cutie marks back.
Then why did they want to meet us in secret? And why did they ask us not to tell Starlight who told us about the vault? Something's not right.
I've never seen anything like it!
Pinkie!
It's a trap!
Give them back!
As princess, I've been chosen to spread the magic of friendship across Equestria. So why would the Tree of Harmony want us to sit in a castle in Ponyville?
Seems like the map wants us to find out.
An entire village with the same cutie mark?
It's a trap!
Ugh, we've gotta find a way out of here! I can't take much more of that voice!
Something odd about that staff. I haven't studied Eastern unicorns as much as I should have, but I'm pretty sure Meadowbrook only had eight magical items, not nine. And I don't remember any of them being a staff.
I've got it!
I know how we can get out!
But there is a third way.
We don't actually have to escape. They'll just let us out when they think we've accepted their philosophy!
There's one of us they might believe.
You've gotta find a way to get our cutie marks back.
Fluttershy? How could you?!
We have to stay as positive as we can. If Party Favor sees how much we really do like each other, even though we're all different, maybe we can use him to spread our message to the rest of the village.
I-I think so. But I just want to be sure. If I agree to leave my cutie mark in the vault, I'll really be happier?
And you wouldn't let me just live here in the village with my old cutie mark?
Everypony has unique talents and gifts, and when we share them with each other, that's how rea<U+0097>
If we hadn't come here to help them, they'd still be living under her rules! Now it's their turn to help us!
I studied magic for years too! But what I didn't know then was that studying could only take me so far. Each of my friends has taught me something different about myself! It was their unique gifts and passions and personalities that helped bring out the magic inside of me! I never would have learned that I represent the element of magic without these five! And I certainly wouldn't be here to stop you now!
We just have to hope that when she's had a chance to think it over, she realizes that you all have taught her something.
Does that mean you'll stay in the village?
I have a feeling it means our work here is done.
But the map didn't send me. It sent us. You're a part of me, all of you. And there's no doubt you're a part of my mission to spread friendship too.
Maybe we can stay a little while longer. Come on!
No problem, happy to do it!
Aren't there more animals that need cleaning?
Oh, no! Angel got dirty! I'd better stay longer to help give him a bath too!
No! The castle's... fine! But maybe I'd better see if Pinkie Pie needs help with the pancakes!
Huh?! I'm pancake! I mean, awake...
Oh, has it been that obvious? I've been... the thing is... I know it's silly, but I... I've been avoiding... this place.
The castle is amazing. But it just... It doesn't feel like home.
It's just so daunting! Look how big it is! I-I don't even know where to start!
Ooh, I guess I do need a little help. And so does my castle. And I just know you'll do a great job, because nopony knows me better than you.
Spike, you're back! How do I look?
And more importantly, how does the castle look?
I can't wait to go home and see it!
The 'Extra-strength-hot-stone-deep-tissue massage'?
I think I'll just have a traditional massage, but you go for it.
Great suggestion, Spike. I feel totally relaxed.
You want to hop on? Maybe I can get us to the castle faster.
I don't know.
Really? I've never heard that theory.
I really miss this place, Spike. We had so many wonderful memories here.
Oh, Spike, I'm so sorry. Of course losing the Golden Oak Library was hard for you too. I've got an idea. Why don't we have the girls add some things to make the castle feel more like your home as well?
Hop on!
Ow! What are you doing?
Oh, okay. What is it?
I thought you said you sleep like a baby in the castle.
How's that one? Too soft? Too hard? Too lumpy?
Oh, thank goodness. I thought you'd never find one you liked! Let's find a salespony and get out of here.
Hello? We're home!
Oh, I, uh... love what you've done with the place. You did such a good job of... preserving the integrity of the original design.
Wait. Keep me from coming back here?
It's exactly what the castle needed. And I am ready to make new memories here.
Let's go to the dining room. It's a little sparse, but at least there's a table and chairs. Whoa! What happened in here? Last I checked, this place was empty!
What was that?!
Everything's looking great, don't you think?
Well, he does seem to be moving a little slowly.
And he looks kind of sleepy...
...just like he always does.
Look, Rainbow Dash, we all know how upset you are about Tank hiber<U+0097>
We all know how upset you are about Tank. But you shouldn't take your anger out on your friends.
Prepare yourselves, everypony! Winter is coming!
Everypony, look out!
Rainbow Dash! Are you alright?
I don't know what we can do.
You too?!
Look, everypony, I know how hard it is to say goodbye<U+0097>
What?! Me?! What about Applejack?
I don't know... Rainbow Dash? Are you okay?
Well, guess we're starting winter with a bang.
Uh, I don't think Rainbow Dash could handle it.
Goodbye, Tank! We'll miss you!
Well? Ready for some winter fun?
Anything I can do to make it easier on you.
I'll take care of this.
What are you doing here with... that?!
This night is extremely important to me, Discord. Keep it under control!
Discord! I thought I told you to keep your friend under control!
Thank you. It's alright, everypony. Let's just get back to enjoying this magical evening!
Hey!
What is he doing?!
What is that?!
None of my magic works on this ooze! Can you stop it?
Discord, how could you bring him here?!
Don't worry, Fluttershy! We'll stop him!
I'm sorry, Princess Celestia. I thought I could give you a break tonight, but it turns out I was in over my head.
I know, it was a<U+0097>What?! But there was ooze all over the place! And one of the guests threatened to send somepony to another dimension!
This is so exciting. The map is summoning you to Griffonstone, the very heart of the griffon kingdom! I don't know if either of you have read "Bygone Griffons of Greatness", but griffons were known to be<U+0097>
You mean Gilda?
So, maybe Gilda was a little rude. You still get to go to Griffonstone, and according to this book, it has a rich, fascinating history! In ancient times, griffons were known to be as greedy as dragons, always hoarding their bits and other treasures. But all that changed when King Grover found the mysterious golden Idol of Boreas. Legend says the Idol of Boreas was made from the dust of golden sunsets, blown across the mountains by the north winds. Possessing the Idol of Boreas filled the griffons' hearts with pride. It's said that that one great treasure is responsible for turning Griffonstone into the most majestic kingdom of all the land.
It was actually Gilda's visit that made me curious. So I picked up "Bygone Griffons of Greatness", and I've been hooked ever since! And now... Now you two get to see Griffonstone with your very own eyes.
No, no, if the map wanted me to go to the coolest kingdom in all of Equestria and tour the palace and see the actual idol that unites an entire species, which would be super amazing, I'm sure it would've said so. You two can handle whatever the issue is just fine. I'll stay here and do important princessy things. I guess.
Upon arriving in Griffon Gorge, be sure to pause and cast your eyes northerly, up the Hyperborean Mountains, taking in the breathtaking beauty of Griffonstone. Once in Griffonstone proper, go immediately to the palace and introduce yourself to the king. "Bygone Griffons of Greatness" was written a long time ago, and it ends with the coronation of the fourteenth king of the griffons, King Guto. I have no idea who's in charge now. Tell the king you've been sent by the Princess of Friendship, and you're there to help with some sort of problem. If for some reason the king can't help, I'd try the Griffonstone library next. It's a little known secret that if you befriend a librarian, you can usually find out anything. Plus, as a bonus, there's a statue of King Grover outside! Photo op! And don't forget to sample some famous griffon scones. They're supposed to be the best.
You know something, girls? We are so lucky to live in this town. I love you all!
Sorry!
Thank you, everypony. With delegates from over fifty cities attending three days of conferences, receptions, and meetings, this is the largest Grand Equestria Pony Summit yet. And let me tell you, putting it all together has led to more than one sleepless night. We're so excited to have you here and to learn more about life all across this great land of ours.
And now my faithful assistant Spike would like to say a few words.
Huh?
Does something need scheduling?
Okay, no problem. Just put the hay in the apple and eat the candle, hm?
I'm glad you're here, Spike. We've got a lot to do! Do you know if the water main was fixed?
I haven't slept like that since I was a filly!
Fancy Pants, what's wrong?
Is this about the special privileges you wanted? Because this seems a little extreme!
What's going on, Spike?
A few decisions?!
Well, Spike, one of the most important things a princess can do is realize when she's made a mistake and fix it.
You look nervous. There's no reason to be nervous. Nothing to worry about. Everything's gonna be fine!
Ohhhh...
You're right. Remember, Equestria and Yakyakistan haven't opened their borders for hundreds of moons. In fact, Yakyakistan is so far north of the Crystal Mountains, nopony's even been there! Imagine the look on Princess Celestia's face when she finds out we made friends with a yak prince! I'm calm! I'm calm...
Prince Rutherford, your Majesty. On behalf of all of us, I welcome you to Equestria.
You must be hungry after a long journey.
We've prepared a banquet of traditional yak foods.
All we have to do is show them how great it can be to have friends before Princess Celestia arrives for the friendship party tonight. Now, who read the seven-volume cross-indexed history of Yakyakistan I recommended?
Pinkie Pie, can you show them around town? I know you have to plan the friendship party too, but it would really help make them feel welcome.
Remember, we want to make sure Equestria feels like home. That means doing everything we can to make this place feel like Yakyakistan.
Good. Let's get out there and make some new friends!
Pinkie Pie, tonight's Yakyakistan theme party is more important than ever! You'll make them forget all about this afternoon, right? Because if it's not perfect, they're gonna smash everything! And I'm not sure how much more smashing this visit can take!
Pinkie Pie, I don't know what we'd do without you<U+0097>
And this is Sugarcube Corner. They're working hard to make your traditional Yakyakistan cake.
Do you mind, um, waiting here for one moment?
How's tonight's party coming? I'm doing what I can, but it's really up to you at this point! ...Pinkie? Where are you?!
Did you find her?
But the party! It's all we have left! What are we gonna do?!
"Don't worry. I'll be back in time for the party. Love, Pinkie Pie." If Pinkie Pie says she'll be back in time for the party, she'll be back. We have to trust her. Right? No reason to freak out!
You're right. Let's just focus on keeping the yaks happy 'til she's back.
The cake!
We've never needed a party so badly.
Phew!
Spike!
No! Just a little longer!
No Pinkie Pie? What's this?!
The yaks are going home! This is awful! I wanted to surprise Princess Celestia. Now the only surprise is that I may have just started a war.
How could she be so late to the party? This isn't like her.
Ugh. Is everypony alright?
That's right!
No, I'm not! They're just so... cheesy.
I had no idea she worked so hard on her parties.
Let's not get carried away.
You're back!
Pinkie Pie, you're not a failure.
It's too late. The yaks left on the last train.
Wow, Pinkie. This came together quick, even for you.
Heh. Just doing my best to spread friendship.
Thanks for taking care of that, Spike. After three events in one week, I really needed to relax with a good book.
What's funny about that?
What are you talking about? I had good friends in Canterlot.
This is a disaster! All my old friends! I can't remember any of their names right now! But do you really think that they think I'm a bad friend?!
Oh, I feel terrible! I've gotta make it up to them! Pack a bag, Spike! We're going to Canterlot! And make a list of my friends' names.
The only logical place to start is at the beginning.
Oh. It's exactly how we left it! Look! It's Predictions and Prophecies! And it's still open to the Elements of Harmony!
How could I have let this happen?
But look at the way I left this place. It's a total mess! Just like how I left my friendships.
I've gotta make it up toooo... uh...
Yeah. Them.
Spike! Come on! We've got work to do!
I did a little research, and I think I know where we can find Minuette! That is one of my friends, right?
No, Spike, I'm glad you opened your big mouth. These ponies have probably been suffering ever since I left. Wondering why their supposed friend would treat them so badly!
Minuette?
Of course! My old friends!
This is perfect! I can apologize to all three of them at once!
You did?
Oh.
Well, uh, you see... I came to apologize.
Before I left Canterlot, I didn't really appreciate my friends. And that's because I didn't know how important friendship was. But I've learned so much since I moved to Ponyville. I learned what it means to be a good friend and that I certainly wasn't one to the three of you. So for all the pain I caused you, I am truly sorry.
It's our old science lab! I have so many great memories of this place!
Whatever happened to Moon Dancer?
Yeah, you know, our other friend.
Moon Dancer?
It's us! Your old friends!
Exactly how I used to be.
Nopony looks at her or says hello or even gives her a smile. It's like she doesn't even exist. Was she always like this?
Oh, sorry, girls... I've got a lot of studying to catch up on.
I had no idea that party was so important to her. I've gotta find a way to make it up to her!
Oh, my gosh! Moon Dancer?! Is that<U+0097>
Moon Dancer, can I talk to you for a min<U+0097>
Eh, a bubble of silence. I haven't seen you in a while and I thought it might be nice to catch up.
You know, 'cause we're friends.
I'm really sorry to bother you. I was just hoping we would go outside and talk for a bit.
I'm sorry I skipped your party.
You did once. And I was so caught up in my own studying that I didn't take your feelings into account.
Sparkle.
Fine!
I've been studying a new studying technique. I can only do it for a few minutes, but you'd be amazed how much you can pick up when you're actually in a book!
You know Hayscartes?
I have a copy of his Treatise on Ponies, you know.
This is where I used to live. You mean, I never had you over?
Maybe?
Look, I didn't bring you over here for even more poignant reminders of what a bad friend I was. I brought you here to give you this. You can come here whenever you want and study to your heart's content.
But first, you've gotta do something for me.
Have dinner with our old friends tonight.
I've been spending a lot of time with Minuette, Twinkleshine, and Lemon Hearts since I've been back. They really miss you.
Moon Dancer, wait! A wise pony once taught me that there's more to life than dusty old books!
What if I taught you Hayscartes' method?
Moon Dancer, please.
Oh! Really? Well, uh, did you know Lemon Hearts here works at the Canterlot palace?
Moon Dancer! You've gotta give friendship a chance!
No. No, I'm not.
I don't know, Spike. I really messed this one up. That party was everything to her. I can only imagine what it must've felt like when I didn't show up.
If there was only a way to undo the damage... I know what I need to do. And I know just who can help me.
I did head home. But not to throw in the towel. I went to get my secret weapon. Minuette, meet<U+0097>
You two know each other?
Just come with me.
It's a party. For you.
Come on in!
I know. And I think it's my fault. Back when we were in school together, you invited me to a party. I was so focused on my studies that I didn't show up.
It was a big deal. And now that I realize how important friendship is, I'd like to make up for my mistake with a new party. A party in honor of my friend Moon Dancer! Please, you've got to let me make this up to you.
Uh, yes?
You're right. This party can't make up for the way I hurt you. But please, don't let my mistake be the reason you can't be friends with anypony else.
I'm sorry, Moon Dancer. I've faced magical creatures, the end of Equestria, all sorts of things. But seeing how my actions affected you, that was one of the worst feelings I've ever had.
I think it's time for us to go, Moon Dancer.
Oh. We'll come back and visit soon.
Deal.
Princess Luna's turning into Nightmare Moon again!
You know... I didn't sleep well either.
Well, mine sure was. There was this blue smoke monster and... what?
That's an awfully big coincidence.
I don't know, but I do know who might. Spike, could you send a scroll to Princess Luna?
Dear Princess Luna, last night my friends and I all dreamt of a creature made of blue smoke. I'm sure you're very busy, but when you have the chance, please let me know if you have any idea what it could mean. Yours, Princess Twilight Sparkle. You can leave out the yawns.
We all did.
So you've encountered the smoke monster too?
We've prepared everything exactly as you requested.
Speaking of princesses, aren't you gonna ask Celestia for her help as well?
Aw, thank you, Spike!
Luna!
But that means the Tantabus could be turning every dream in Ponyville into a nightmare!
Hmm... What if everypony in Ponyville were having one dream?
Princess Luna did it!
Princess, what's wrong?
Then you're in luck.
Fluttershy's right! We've all got to work together to stop it from escaping!
And not just any! This is your dream! Anything you can do in your dreams, you can do now!
But it's not enough!
I think it's feeding off your guilt, Princess Luna!
But that means you might just be the key to stopping all this!
But look at what you're doing! Nightmare Moon would've wanted the Tantabus to turn Equestria into a nightmare! You're doing everything you can to stop it! Don't you see? That proves you're not the same pony you were then! Everypony who knows you knows that Nightmare Moon is in the past! We all trust you, Luna! Do you trust us enough to believe we're right?
Luna did it!
Luna created the Tantabus to punish herself! The worse she felt, the more power it had! But once she finally forgave herself for what Nightmare Moon did...
Rarity's such a savvy businesspony. I'm so impressed she used the huge bonus she earned making the costumes for Sapphire Shores' Equestria-wide tour to open this second boutique!
Wow, Sassy. Your attention to detail is truly impressive.
If being a princess and wearing that dress can help your boutique in any way, then I say stick a pin in it. It's done.
Yeah! Rarity's Royal Regalia is amazing! And everypony seemed to love the Princess Dress!
Ehh... I'm bored.
I've read all these books already.
And I'm bored! I wanna do something! Things have been so slow around here and I just<U+0097>
Yes! Finally! We've been summoned! I wonder where the map wants us to<U+0097>
Hmmm. It looks like you've been summoned to this particular neighborhood here.
You may be more of a country pony at heart, Applejack, but the map picked you two because you're the best ponies to tackle this particular mission.
It's such an exciting city, and there's still so much I'd like to do there. So many museums and historical landmarks to visit. Not to mention all the libraries! But this is your mission. Heh-heh. Don't worry about me. I've got plenty of... books... to keep me... busy.
Great! Everypony's here. Now I don't have to wait any longer to tell you all the wonderful news! Somepony special is coming to visit Ponyville, and I need your help getting everything ready!
It's...
Yes, and they're coming<U+0097>
Yes, on the<U+0097>
Yes.
And that's it.
Follow me.
It sure is! When Shining Armor said he wanted to come to the castle and visit, I started collecting things he liked when he was a colt as a surprise!
I've been so excited that it's been hard to keep it to myself!
Be careful! They're mint-in-bag!
This is Brutus Force. Shining Armor used to carry him around like his baby!
Me, too. But there's a few more things I'd like to add before he gets here, and I could really use a hoof collecting them.
Thanks, everypony! I just can't wait 'til they walk in and see everything!
Those look yummy, Pinkie! Let me help you! But we better cover them up so they don't get spoiled.
Pinkie Pie, do you have something you need to say? You seem like you've been keeping something in.
Tell!
Shining Armor, Cadance! You're early! I thought something had come up and you weren't gonna make it until Saturday!
I'm so glad you're here! I have a big surprise for you!
Didn't you see him? He couldn't stop raving about it!
In the town square. I wish they'd waited to walk over with us, but they said they had something to take care of first!
What?
That's odd. Usually they're quite punctual.
A scavenger hunt! Shining Armor used to set these up for me when I was a filly! At the end, there was always a big prize, like a new book, or several new books, or<U+0097>
I've got it! "Where the young ones spend their week."
It's the Ponyville Schoolhouse!
"A piece of paper will continue this caper." It's in the Foal Free Press!
You know, there's really no time limit on these scavenger hunts, Pinkie.
"Though this hall is rather small, in it you'll find files of all kinds. Take a look on the back of the birth certificate of Applejack."
Does anypony know where the birth certificates are kept?
"This next place is where you can buy a table or chair, or some comfy beds to rest little heads"?
I don't know...
It was perfect! Just like old times, except even better because this time I got to share it with my best friends! There's just one thing missing, isn't there?
Mmmm, the book prize at the end!
Oh. I don't understand.
First we went to the schoolhouse...
And then we read the Foal Free Press... After that we found Applejack's birth certificate... And then the last clue was under a crib.
Hmmm... School... foal... birth certificate... and crib... Can it be? Are you two...?!
You mean... I'm going to be an aunt?! This is the best prize ever!
Oh, I love you guys! And I can't wait to meet your little foal!
We're about to hang our Hearth's Warming dolls if you wanna join us.
I think it's sweet that your families are spending the holiday together.
When Spike and I spent our first Hearth's Warming Eve together, he couldn't wait all night to open his presents! Ever since then, we've always opened them the night before!
To each their own, I suppose.
Fluttershy, what are you doing here? Is everything okay?
Oh, that's great! Isn't it great?
We're just glad you're here.
Fluttershy, what's wrong?
Unless... you were the one doing the scaring!
The thing you hate is being scared, but if you're the one doing the scaring, then...
So you like that idea?
It sounds like it's a scary tea party?
It was really creative, though. I never would have thought of... all this.
Which way are we supposed to go now?!
I can't believe it!
How did you do all this?!
Wow! That was inspired!
Every year!
Then we are, too.
Yes, but that was because we needed to! This is just because I want to! I call it my "book-sort-cation"! Three uninterrupted days of reorganizing books. Can you think of anything more relaxing?
I've even devised a better system for organizing them. It decreases the amount of time it takes to find a book you're looking for by nearly three quarters of a second!
Look at them all. Why, there must be at least twenty thousand books to organize!
Best long weekend ever! I'm sure we can make some time for a claw massage and a back rub too.
Alright, alright, so it's been a little while since we've seen the sun.
Yes, but they were three very productive days! Even if you did take that two-hour claw massage break.
It's not like we missed anything.
Hi, Rainbow Dash. Good to see you, Discord.
Come on, Rainbow Dash. What's going on here?
Since when?
It is?
Oh. Okay.
That was strange, right? Since when have Rainbow Dash and Discord had inside jokes?
Hey! Nopony made you join me on my book-sort-cation.
Rarity?
Thanks! It was very relaxing. And we were able to clear a shelf for those old-fashioned books you wanted to donate.
Weren't you just with<U+0097>
It was good!
I appreciate that... Speaking of books, I should get these on the shelves.
Hmm. Rainbow Dash bonding with Discord, Rarity finding something he did genuinely funny... Must've been some weekend.
Of course not.
What's got you two in hysterics?
He's everywhere today, isn't he?
Eh, I don't get it.
I guess that's funny?
It was fine!
I am not glum. I'm glad! I'm glad you all had such a good time together. Having inside jokes can really create a lasting bond between friends.
I'm sure I had just as much fun as the rest of you.
I can't believe I missed out on all that bonding!
Spike, I'm the Princess of Friendship. I don't get jealous. I'm sorry I missed out because sharing that experience would've helped me with my Princess of Friendship duties!
If our friends could enjoy three full days with Discord that much, it must have something to do with the specific things they did together! If we could find out what those things were, it could be a real breakthrough in the science of friendship!
I know so! You thought our book-sort-cation was fun? This is gonna be even better!
Thank you for coming. I wouldn't have asked you here if it wasn't important.
I want to know how these funny moments you shared came to pass. I can use this data to help advance friendships all over Equestria.
Perfect. Let's start with the snake.
The hose? A snake? A stick?
I do need to be there.
Absolutely not! Time travel is not something to be messed with. We simply need to recreate everything that led to these jokes.
Are you sure it was this table?
When it comes to science, everything matters. One change to the equation could ruin the experiment.
Alright, so you sat down at the table, and then what happened?
Yes?
...Really?
Are you sure there's not something you've missed? Some other detail about your lunch together that you're forgetting?
But it is really important that I figure this out. It's for the good of all Equestria!
What?
Me?
I'm not buying it. Not for a second. There is definitely something else going on here, Spike!
Even if I'm not able to laugh at what happened, I should be able to figure out why they find it funny. Why they think they had this amazing and hilarious time together. But I can't figure it out! It doesn't make sense!
Our friends think something great happened to them while I was away, but no. It was something awful! If we don't break the spell they're under, who knows what terrible things could happen?!
Come on, Spike! There's no time to lose!
Zecora, what do you think? Can you undo Discord's magic?
They're having fun with Discord, that's why!
Trust me, they would never laugh like that unless something magical was involved. It's not that funny. I know funny.
Hey, gang!
I am excited! We're gonna have fun today!
Just one tiny, minuscule, microscopic thing before fun times. I need everypony to sip this potion to break Discord's spell on you!
Don't be embarrassed. So what if Discord cast a spell on you so you thought you had a great time, and now you have all these inside jokes that you seem to be constantly laughing at? Don't worry! You didn't have your defenses up. I get it.
Uh-huh. Or you reenacted what you thought was fun but really wasn't because you were under a spell that made you think what happened was fun!
Be honest. The only reason you won't drink the potion is because, deep down in your hearts, you know there's a chance that Discord has you under his power!
"The gang"?
Ugh. But it's still not funny!
But I wasn't there! I wasn't included! Maybe it's my own fault for staying in and having a book-sort-cation when I could have been making jokes and memories and having a great time with my friends! But I didn't do that, did I?! You all did! You were all there, but<U+0097>! I wasn't there. I missed out. And seeing you having all these jokes I wasn't a part of and couldn't understand made me...
No. The Princess of Friendship can't get jealous.
You didn't do anything wrong. You're allowed to share things that don't include me.
They wanted me to be there? And you convinced them to not invite me?
Come on, you'd have to be a complete crazy pony to think he'd do something like that! What are you gonna say next, Pinkie? That we all have to drink some weird potion to break the spell?
You're here!
Isn't this exciting?!
I was about to come and get you, but then I got distracted.
Ever since the map called us, I've been doing a ton of research.
Testing out potential friendship problems.
Diversifying my solution portfolio.
I know! But I wanna be one hundred percent prepared! I mean, I'm the Princess of Friendship. How would it look if I couldn't solve a friendship problem?
The Smokey Mountains!
Neither have I. And there isn't a lot of information on them. All I could find was this. The Smokey Mountains harbor the most beautiful valley in all of Equestria between its two majestic mountain peaks.
I can't wait to get started! I'm a little nervous since that's all I could find. I usually like to be a bit more prepared.
Yep! I've prepared our things. Snacks, books, blankets, books.
There are a lot of books.
What do ya think our friendship problem's gonna be?
Do you think it'll be a problem about lying?
You're right.
Ooh! Could it be about when two friends just randomly decide to do something together, but they forget to invite the third friend, and the third friend feels left out?
Or where one friend tells another friend's secret after they asked them not to?
Here. Lemme get that.
Sorry I've been a little skiddly-bopty-boo. I just can't believe this is finally happening!
Whoa! What in Equestria is happening?
Oh, boy. I'm feeling very unprepared. Where do we even start?
Um, hi. Hello. Excuse us, but what are you doing?
I am Twilight Sparkle, the Princess of Friendship. And I am here to solve your friendship problem.
Well, maybe there could be if we figure out what the McColts did to make you so mad.
I know what to do. We're gonna talk with these McColts and hear their side of the story. Once we have all the facts, we can put an end to this using reason and rationale.
In the meantime, could you please call off the pumpkining?
Thanks. C'mon, Fluttershy.
There are four Alicorn princesses in Equestria now. I am Twilight Sparkle, the Princess of Friendship.
We are not spies! Why does everypony assume we're spies?
Well, actually, that's why we're here <U+0096> to solve your problem with the Hooffields.
No! That's not what I meant at all!
We are not on anypony's side. We're here to help you become friends again.
But you could be! They're just really upset you ruined their farmhouse.
Have you tried meeting at a neutral location, talking about your problems, and really listening to each other?
Well, they'll listen to me. I'm an impartial third party.
Attention, Hooffields and McColts! I'm not on anypony's side, but I can see you're both wasting time and resources on being mean to each other. Ponies are supposed to help each other and be kind. So let's stop this senseless fighting! There. That should do it. Ready to go home, Fluttershy?
Oh, yeah. They should be glowing any minute now...
Or not.
So much for potential friendship solution number twenty-eight.
What are you doing? I asked you to stop fighting.
Well, that didn't work. I was so sure it would.
Not to worry. I'll just, uh...
...find the root of the problem and work from there.
Pardon us, Ma, but do you remember what started this whole feud in the first place?
I'm starting to think neither of you know what either of you have done.
Okay, backup plan to the backup plan. Maybe we can find some common ground that you can bond over. What do you do when you're not fighting?
Of winning what?
So the only thing they have in common is that they both want to win a fight, and neither of them know what it's over. How can I end this feud if I don't know what it's about?
That's a good idea. And friendship solution number forty-eight. But we can move it up.
I'm so glad you agreed to do this. This apology cake will go a long way to making amends between you two. Which part of my argument changed your mind? The part where I said the benefits of friendship outweigh the cost of war, or the part where I said forgiveness is an investment in happiness?
Wait. Are you even listening to me?
Think of this as more than just a cake. It's the first step in the long road to forgiveness.
Ma Hooffield, you planted ponies in that cake?!
I don't know if we can do this at all. Even if I make things right, they're just gonna fight again.
What was that?
I don't get it. This was supposed to be the most beautiful valley in all of Equestria. What happened?
What?
Stop! You have to listen to me!
Fluttershy! You have to tell them! It's a lot harder to freeze an army of ponies than just six of them!
Oh, right!
This is wonderful! I am so proud of you two!
We did, and we didn't need my friendship portfolio to do it. We just needed each other. So, what do you think will happen next? We've all been called by the map now.
What if it summons all six of us to another place? Or another pony we weren't expecting? What if it wants us to solve other kinds of problems, like quantum physics, or why the apple doesn't fall far from the tree?
Wow, Applejack! Are you sure you've never managed a concert before?
And thanks to Pinkie's connections organizing the Ponypalooza Rock Concert, we've got quite a lineup for the Helping Hooves Music Festival.
What is it, Pinkie?
Good evening, everypony! Welcome to opening night of the Helping Hooves Music Festival! Now it is my great honor to introduce you to our headlining act <U+0096> Countess Coloratura!
If somepony had told me when I was a blank flank that one day I'd give a speech to a class at Celestia's School of Magic, I wouldn't have believed it, but...
I hope that I have been up to the task, because I can tell that all of you are and that the future of Equestrian magic is in good hooves.
Eh, I don't know, Spike. I'd like to be able to get through the whole speech without looking at the cards.
Oh, I'm not nervous, Spike, but I do have to set a good example, especially for magic students. That's why this speech has to be...
Exactly. Let's go through it one more time. When Princess Celestia asked me to speak to you today, I was honored to have the opportunity to talk about my favorite subject: magic.
Obviously, the long term effects of...
...the simultaneous acquisition of cutie marks has yet to be determined, but... Ahem. Next slide, please.
I can speak from my own experience that the power of Cutie Mark Magic is very real, and in the instance of my friends and I, it can be traced to a single event! Without Rainbow Dash's race to defend Fluttershy's honor, this rainboom wouldn't have happened. Fluttershy might never have discovered her love of animals. Applejack might never have realized that she belonged on her farm. And Pinkie Pie might never have decided to leave hers. It might be hard to imagine Rarity without her sense of fabulousness. But it's even harder to fathom what my life would be like. Without this rainboom, I might not have gotten into magic school. Celestia wouldn't have taken me on as her pupil or sent me to Ponyville to meet my friends. And the most powerful thing about Cutie Mark Magic that I found is the connection I share with them.
But, um...
The real question about... Cutie Mark Magic is... who it seems to affect.
I was sure I saw her, Spike. But when I looked again, she was gone! I'm just worried what she could be up to.
Forcing everypony in her village to have the same cutie mark wasn't right. We had to do something!
Honestly, Spike. I'm not really sure what I saw. But as long as I have my friends, I know everything will be all right.
Maybe I was just more stressed about that speech than I thought.
Well, when you say it like that, it does sound kinda silly.
What are you doing, Starlight?
I don't know, Spike, but I think we better find out!
Spike, no! Don't touch that!
I don't know, Spike, but it looked like she could fly with just magic! Keep your eyes open. We don't know what she has planned.
Did Rainbow Dash look really young to you? And I didn't see a cutie mark. You don't think...
Spike, only Star Swirl the Bearded could do something like that, and even his spell just went back a week! How could Starlight do more than the greatest wizard in Equestria?
Star Swirl's spell! Oh, no!
Go where?
What did you do?!
Ugh... I don't know what Starlight's up to yet, but we'd better figure it out before it's too late.
The map pulled us back, but whatever Starlight did in the past changed things here!
More like when.
Starlight altered Star Swirl's spell, then somehow used it on the map to travel into the past and change something! Once she did, the map pulled us back to the present!
Not exactly. Everything's different. Look. The map doesn't even make sense anymore! The Crystal Empire takes up half of Equestria!
Right! This is too big to handle on our own.
We need to find our friends and get help!
I know, Spike, but this is Ponyville. How bad could things be?
I don't understand.
I don't think she's here, Spike. I'm not sure anything we know is the same. But I know one place that could never change!
Applejack?!
It's so good to see you! We couldn't find Pinkie or Rarity or Fluttershy or Rainbow Dash, but I just knew you'd still be here!
You... don't know who I am?
The cause?
I know this is hard to believe, but you and I and those other ponies I mentioned are friends!
I'm telling you the truth! And if you come with me, I'll prove it.
Another pony named Starlight Glimmer used this map to travel through time and change things in the past. For some reason, the map's here but everything else is different!
Well, for one thing, where we came from, there's no war with King Sombra. Maybe you could tell us how the war started, then we can figure out when everything changed!
I just can't believe it! We stopped King Sombra! You and me and all of our friends!
Right.
Thank you. We're going to set things right.
I don't know! The only thing we know for sure is that Starlight stopped the rainboom.
Spike, that's it! The map is connected to the Tree of Harmony! It must sense that something isn't right! That's why it's still here! I'll just use Starlight's version of the spell and go back a little earlier and stop her before she even knows we're there!
All we have to do now is find Starlight and<U+0097>
Oops!
No problem, Spike. At least now we know exactly what we have to do!
Okay, keep your eyes peeled.
We have to stop Starlight as soon as Rainbow Dash and those bullies race by!
So be ready.
Because she could pop up anywhere!
What's going on here?
Well, don't!
I mean... you were?
No, of course not...
No, it wouldn't! I mean, it'd be nice not to be teased, of course, but that's not the same thing!
I know you only convinced those bullies to not tease Fluttershy to stop the rainboom!
This isn't over yet!
Hi!
You think you can stop for a minute?
I hear you're pretty fast!
Okay, so, um, hey, you want to race?
Come on, I thought you were fast!
Okay, listen. You don't have to race me. I just need you to fly fast enough for a sonic rainboom!
But it's not! I know it's not! I've seen you do it! In the future!
No! Wait!
This is gonna be harder than I thought. We'll have to try again!
I don't want to live in that awful future we saw!
Pinkie? Fluttershy?
I was sure I saw her, Spike!
But whatever Starlight did in the past changed things here!
I don't want to live in that awful future we saw!
Wait! We're not changelings! I'm a pony! And he's a dragon!
Zecora! Please, you have to listen.
I think I can explain.
Chrysalis and her army tried to take over Canterlot, but my friends and I stopped her.
Starlight Glimmer, a pony who traveled back in time to stop my friends and me from ever coming together!
I guess so. But this is the second time I've come back and this world is even worse than the last one! If Starlight keeps doing the same thing in the past, how could the present be so different?
Even if there's a chance Chrysalis will honor her word, shouldn't you try?
Lucky for you, there's more where that came from!
What are you doing? You have to finish your race!
Well, you obviously don't mean us falling, because that's becoming pretty routine.
Why would the map bring us back to a different time of day than when we left?
The Castle of the Two Sisters!
Rarity?
Rarity, you have to listen to me! The future of Equestria's at stake!
I have to get back to the map so I can stop Starlight from changing the past, because every present I come to is worse than the last!
...Alright.
We have no choice, Spike. I can take you to it, but you'll have to get past the timberwolves.
No. I know you can.
A pony from my time used this spell to travel back and change the past.
But it won't.
In my world, my friends and I found the Elements and used them to defeat you! And I will do everything in my power to bring that world back!
Now more than ever I know how important it is to stop you!
No. You were right. I can't stop you.
But you can't stop me from trying, and we could be stuck doing this for all eternity!
What you're doing goes way beyond cutie marks! Everything we do here in the past <U+0096> even the smallest change <U+0096> can snowball into an avalanche of trouble for the future!
It does!
I don't know how important other ponies' friendships are to the future, but I can show you what the world is like without mine!
The future. Or rather, the present.
I wish I could say I was surprised. But every world I come back to is worse than the last. I don't know why my friends and I are so important to Equestria, but we are.
Like I said, everything in the past affects the future, even the tiniest act. And what you're doing leads here. I know I can't stop you, but I thought showing you this might change your mind.
I don't know what happened that led you to make your village without cutie marks, and I'm sorry my friends and I had to take it away.
Where are we?
That's ridiculous. A cutie mark can't take your friends away.
Starlight, you're right! I don't know what you went through! But I do know you can't do this! I've seen where this leads, and so have you!
I've seen it a dozen times! Things don't turn out well in Equestria without my friends!
The differences between me and my friends are the very things that make our friendship strong!
So try again! Make new friends! And if something that you can't control happens that changes things, work through it together! That's what friendship is! And it's not just my friendships that are important to Equestria! Everypony's are! When yours ended, it led us here. But just imagine all the others that are out there waiting for you if you just give them a chance!
I guess it's up to you to make sure they don't.
Yeah, Spike. It looks like we're home!
Actually, it's kind of a long story.
I think it's more than that. Friendship connects all of Equestria, and undoing one group of friends made its magic less powerful.
She obviously has more talent for magic than almost anypony I've seen. My magic couldn't stop her. I had to convince her to stop on her own. Once I realized that, everything fell into place.
Actually, I kind of have something else in mind.
I've been thinking a lot about how badly Equestria fared without just one group of friends. Because even when one friendship dies, the results can be disastrous.
And that's why I've asked you here. If you're willing to learn, I'm willing to teach you what I know. You'll have the power to make Equestria an even better place.
Starting is easy! All you have to do is make a friend! And you've got seven of them right here.
Don't ever think that it might be too late You don't have to wait, there's no mistakes with the friends you make A friendship's only made of what you bring And if you do it right, you can do anything
Acceptance, mm-hmm. Altruism, definitely. Starlight, good morning, come in!
Well, I'm not one to dwell on the past, and neither should you. The castle is your home now, and as far as being my pupil goes, I was just trying to figure out what your first friendship lesson should be!
Oh, these are just the A's. After this, I move on to the B's!
Maybe I should pare things down a bit before we go through them. Why don't you join the others in the throne room? They're planning our trip to the Crystal Empire when Shining Armor and Princess Cadance have their baby!
Huh! Funny you should mention it. Because I just narrowed your first friendship lesson down to three options, and one of them is in the Crystal Empire!
I found out that's where the first pony you ever cared about lives!
Of course, that's just one idea. We could also go to Griffonstone. Making friends with a griffon is a challenge all by itself! Or we could tag along with the CMC's the next time they try to help a pony figure out why they're special...
Starlight? Is something wrong?
I know! I guess you were right <U+0096> it is gonna be hard to choose one!
Spike! Come quick!
Shining Armor's a father! I'm an aunt! Well, this settles it! Since we're going to the Crystal Empire, your first friendship lesson is going to be... reuniting with Sunburst!
I'm sure Shining Armor and Princess Cadance will love all our gifts. But I think they're more happy we'll be attending the baby's Crystalling.
Actually, Pinkie, the Crystal Heart is an ancient and powerful relic. Without its magic, the Crystal Empire would be lost to the Frozen North.
Are you kidding? This trip is perfect! Not only do I get to see the baby and take part in the ceremony that helps maintain the magic of the Crystal Empire, but I'm starting my new pupil off with the most amazing friendship lesson ever! I can't wait!
Oh, trust me. I know what it's like to see old friends. But I'll be right there to help things along. I've broken the whole lesson down into a few easy steps to ensure this reunion goes off without a hitch!
Step one, head to Sunburst's house and get you two started on the right hoof. Step two, get to the castle with enough time to visit the ba<U+0097>
Shining Armor!
I didn't know you were meeting us!
Are you all right?
Oh, of course! I don't know what I was thinking! You two probably need all kinds of help! I'm sorry, Starlight, but I guess combining your first lesson with this visit wasn't such a good idea.
I just wish there was a way to do both.
Spike, you're a genius!
Then it's settled! Shining Armor and I will head straight to the castle, and you two can head straight to Sunburst's!
Alright, big brother, let's go see this amazing baby pony!
Of course, I could be wrong.
The baby is an Alicorn?!
And I can help keep tabs on her magic!
Shining Armor! Do you have everything you need for the ceremony?
Alright, take it easy. Pinkie can stay here with me and keep an eye on the baby.
Pinkie, hold her still!
We're here!
It's worse than that. Without the Heart, the Crystal Empire's about to be buried under a mountain of ice and snow!
Shining Armor's a father! I'm an aunt!
Your first friendship lesson is going to be... reuniting with Sunburst!
The baby is an Alicorn?!
Without the Heart, the Crystal Empire's about to be buried under a mountain of ice and snow!
Without the Crystal Heart's magical protection, the entire city's about to become a winter wasteland!
The Heart wasn't missing. It was still in the castle. King Sombra had just hidden it.
And us along with it!
There must be a spell that can restore the Crystal Heart!
Can you hold off the storm?
I don't know how long it will take to find the right spell, but you should probably tell the crowd outside to get somewhere warm!
I'm gonna need all of your help. The crystal library is enormous!
Bridle Buck's Boat Chants, Hayhoof's Intonements, Mystic Maps and Mazes... Anything up there?
I think this is it!
It's a good thing, too! Without this, I don't know what we'd do!
That spell was the only thing we found in the whole library that was even close to what we needed!
It's not your fault, Starlight. None of us were expecting any of this.
I only read it through once!
I'll try. But I'm not sure how long it'll take.
I only hope this spell is the one we need.
I don't think so. I'm just sorry about your lesson.
You better go with her, Spike.
Uh, I think that's everything?
The spell failed. I don't know what else to do.
I tried putting it back together with<U+0097>
The Crystalling!
Well, what are we waiting for?!
I suppose that spell really did the trick!
I don't know, Spike. I think I have a lot to learn about being a teacher.
No thanks to me. I know a lot happened. I just wish I could have given my pupil the attention she deserves.
You know, I never thought about it! But I guess it is!
I'm so glad you two could come!
What's wrong?
Ooh! Oh my goodness, I'd love to! We are sadly lacking any information on dragon culture and customs. I could research them <U+0096> maybe even write an article! This could be my chance to make a great contribution to the knowledge of Equestria! And be there for Spike, heh, of course.
I think we might want something a little more practical this time.
It's not supposed to be flattering. It's supposed to blend in!
This is fascinating! Dragons are notoriously reckless, but they do whatever the Dragon Lord says!
When the scepter disappeared, the dragons stopped glowing! We are learning so much!
Oh, my gosh!
But what can we do?
There has to be another way. It's too dangerous. Besides, if you win, you'd have to stay here!
Well, if you're staying to compete, then we're staying to cheer you on!
Spike!
Her behavior does seem contradictory to everything I've noted about dragons so far.
Good luck. We'll meet you at the top.
We'll be right behind you!
Is it just me, or have we seen this crevasse three times already?
Look!
Awww!
You did well, Spike. With Ember as Dragon Lord, the ponies will be safe and you've gained us a powerful ally.
Plus, Ember said I could write to her anytime I had questions about dragon culture! With this much information, I'll be able to write a whole book on dragons!
First lesson of the day, we very carefully set the table without using magic, so that<U+0097> Yikes!
Did you...?! How? When? What?!
I said no magic. You were supposed to do it by hoof so I could work in a friendship lesson.
Well, if you hadn't used magic, you'd have heard me say, uh... this plate represents your head, this spoon is your heart, and the knives... are sharp! Always be careful with knives. The metaphors make more sense when you're actually setting the table.
I just want to make sure you're ready for this dinner. Princess Celestia will be joining us tomorrow night to see how the friendship lessons are going!
Well, the whole point is for you to bring a new friend. That way, the princess will see for herself just how far you've come. And how good a teacher you have.
That's the best part! You have to make a new friend!
Starlight!
That's fantastic news!
Great!
Powerful?
Trixie?!
You could say that.
So, um, what brings you to Ponyville?
Starlight? A moment? Over here? I know I said make friends with anypony, but, well, with Trixie's past, and your past, I'm not sure she's the best... first friend.
Of course. It's just... She wasn't the nicest pony.
You're right. I trust you. Just be back in time for the dinner.
Pssssssst! Pssst! Psssssst! Shhhhhh!
So, how's it going with your new friend?
Because you know, if it isn't working out for any reason, I could introduce you to my friend here.
No, no! You can come out now!
You like music, right? DJ Pon-3'd be the perfect friend for tonight's incredibly important dinner with Celestia. You know, if you decide to make a last-minute change. Heh.
Who can really say who said what? I know I can't! Can you?
Starlight, I'm just trying to look out for you.
That's kind of what I'm afraid of. Oh! What about her?
But do you really think Trixie's the one to help you with that?
Oh! Now he'd be perfect!
Starlight? Has anyone seen Starlight Glimmer? I'm looking for her! Trixie.
Ahem? You just decided to skip our dinner without telling me? Are you aware that, at this very moment, Princess Celestia is waiting for you at a table with exquisite silverware placement?!
This is exactly why I didn't want you to make friends with Trixie.
Well, you won. I hope you're happy!
Trixie?
Starlight, when I first came to Ponyville, Princess Celestia gave me room to make my own decisions and my own friends. I need to give you the same freedom. I shouldn't have tried to pick and choose your friends for you. Just like me, you have to make your own decisions and your own friends.
From what I've seen, she's the real thing.
But it's not my place to judge. It's all up to you.
Trixie!
I was wrong. I'm sorry. And I have to hand it to you. I could never have pulled off a trick like that.
Do you have time to tell us what happened, Rainbow Dash?
Everypony knows you're a great flyer, Rainbow Dash, but so are the rest of the Wonderbolts. It might be more challenging than you think.
We know you're probably tired, Rainbow Dash, but Pinkie wanted to throw you a real party.
Why would they call you that?
Urgh.
Rarity's right. Why don't you think of the Wonderbolts like us? We're a team, but we all stand out in different ways.
Rainbow Dash is a pretty resilient pony. I'm sure she's shaken off her tough first day and turned it around by now!
I thought the Wonderbolt Reserves were here to help.
That was amazing! She's doing great!
Hey. Rainbow Dash. We just wanted to check on you. Are you doing okay?
Hey, Starlight! Ready to celebrate your first Hearth's Warming Eve here in Ponyville?
I think what Spike means to say is Hearth's Warming is about more than presents and candy. It's a time to spend with friends and family when we celebrate a very important day in Equestria's history.
Maybe you just haven't heard the right Hearth's Warming Eve story yet!
Not that one. My favorite holiday story, "A Hearth's Warming Tale"!
This is the story of a powerful unicorn named Snowfall Frost, who hated Hearth's Warming Eve. It all began many moons ago in Canterlot...
Every home in Canterlot was filled with holiday spirit. Every home... except one. It was said of Snowfall that she was almost as studied as Star Swirl the Bearded. Almost, since everypony knows that Star Swirl was an expert at everything from transfiguration, dimensional calibration, teleportation<U+0097>
Right. The point is, Snowfall was also a powerful unicorn. She wanted to be perfect. Anything that got in the way of that was a waste of time.
Snowdash was Snowfall's loyal assistant.
I think what Spike is trying to say is that everypony has their reasons for doing things. Even Snowfall. And if I could continue the story, we might just find out what they are.
Snowfall was all set to cast her spell that would erase Hearth's Warming Eve for all time...
...when a voice from the hearth caught her attention.
And the reason is to be with your friends! What?
I was not!
Well, the party was<U+0097>
Fine. But hurry up! We're almost to the best part!
The party was in full swing.
And from then on, it was always said of all the Hearth's Warming Eve celebrations, Snowfall's was the Hearth's Warmingest.
The end.
Well, that's it! Thanks for letting me read you the story. Guess you can call it a night. Spike and I are heading downstairs, and if you wanted to, you'd be welcome to join us.
Welcome to the party! Happy Hearth's Warming, Starlight.
I think you're all overreacting. Rarity's our friend. If anypony is gonna understand, it'll be her.
What she means is, before you read it, we should probably tell you about<U+0097>
Let's just say that if I could choose, I probably wouldn't do it that way again. Heh.
Rarity, it's lovely. But are you sure you'll be ready to open tonight?
Well, sweeping can be fun, too. Sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep. Sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep...
Sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep...
Well, opening a store in Manehattan is a pretty big deal. It's natural that Rarity would be a little stressed about how it was going. Since it wasn't going well. Still, I think she handled it all right.
I know things haven't gone perfectly so far, but we've done this kind of thing before. If we all work together<U+0097>
Maybe we should just postpone.
Perfect.
We can do this. And we can stay true to your vision.
I'm pretty sure I know somepony who wouldn't mind organizing this merchandise shipment for you. I'm talking about myself. Oh, please, let me organize it!
There. Perfect. Although, what would Rarity want? Maybe she wouldn't like it done by color. Guess I have to start over!
Yep. We're workin' on it!
How did this happen?
Rarity asked us to help her with everything because she knows all of us so well. She knows how much you care for animals. She'd trust you to solve the problem your way. Maybe we should all do the same. Doing this our way is what Rarity wants. It's not too late. Let's all dig in and we can fix this.
Before Rarity finds out how bad we messed up.
Wow, looks like we fixed that door just in time!
The whole place organized by style, cross-referenced by size, and reverse-indexed by fabric. She'll be able to find anything in three seconds flat! It was some of my best work.
We all figured you had enough on your mind.
Hi, Rarity!
What do you mean?
You two really should set aside some time.
Wow. I didn't realize Applejack had so much to do.
I hate seeing you two not spending time together. Can't you get somepony else in your family to take over for a bit?
I know we're not farmers, but I'm sure Spike and I could handle things for a little while.
Is there one chore we could do?
Perfect! You head out to the spa, and Spike and I'll take care of things here.
Applejack, please. If there's a list involved, I am one hundred percent on top of it.
And don't worry about things here! Spike and I have totally got this! I mean, it's just feeding the pigs. How hard could it be?
Whoa.
Okay, Spike, ready with that list?
Let's do this!
Huh?
"Walk away"? Really?
Spike and I were just trying to follow Applejack's list as closely as possible.
I'm sorry, Applejack, but we never even got started feeding the pigs.
At least you two got to spend some time at the spa together.
What about your hour of spa perfection?
But it doesn't squeak anymore.
Uh, Applejack? It seems like everything you're doing is to fix things that aren't really problems anymore.
Having a friend look at what you're doing with an outside eye can really help!
Well, now that your chores are streamlined, what are you gonna do with all the extra time?
I'm glad you noticed, because they're your new job.
Don't worry, Zephyr, it'll be easy. I just need a Pegasus pony to fly up and wipe each window down from top to bottom.
Wow, Zephyr! This looks amazing!
You were supposed to supervise, not do all the work!
As you've all probably noticed, it's been quite some time since the map has sent us on a mission of friendship.
Yes. Since then. But, as part of her studies, Starlight's been assisting me. And together, we think we've come up with a spell that can get it working again!
Now without further ado...
I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash. I just keep thinking about how much fun you're gonna have at the Daring Do convention. I wish Princess Celestia didn't need my help with the friendship summit in Griffonstone.
A prank isn't very good if you're the only pony laughing.
I know you can. I guess the trick is making sure that your idea of funny matches the pony you're pranking.
That way<U+0097>
Not really.
I'm not sure she understood what we meant.
Pinkie! We need your help.
Not for everypony. And it doesn't seem like Dash is taking the time to find out who enjoys them and who doesn't.
Cooooooookies...
Coooooookies...
<U+0097>pranking whoever you feel like?
I hope Shining Armor and Princess Cadance don't think it's too soon for me to come back to the Crystal Empire for a visit. But I just know Flurry Heart's grown so much already. I wonder if I'll even recognize her.
Starlight, your work in Ponyville isn't going anywhere. Besides, I think we all know you can learn about friendship anywhere. Right, Spike?
Spike, why do you need a disguise?
He did save the Empire. Twice. But still, I don't think your presence will turn our visit into a circus.
I've got a bad feeling about this.
Why was everypony hiding?
Okay. Something strange is definitely going on.
Oh, Cadance, thank goodness! What's going on?
A changeling?!
Checking everypony's identity.
Oh, she's gotten so big! Starlight and I will do whatever we can to help protect her.
Uh, I don't know if that's such a good idea, Spike. It sounds dangerous.
Um...
Spike, if you're done searching for the changeling, Starlight and I could use your help. We're working on a protection spell for Flurry Heart, and nopony takes notes like you.
Oh. Well, it's, uh, nice to meet you, too. How do you know Spike?
Pen pals? Spike! You could have been using my pen pal quill set! Why didn't you tell me?
Well, I'm sure Starlight and I can manage, if you want to spend time with your friend.
Spike! Get away from the changeling!
True. But Starlight has a point. This is getting a little out of hand.
Spike, I'm so proud of you.
Of course! You're a celebrity here in the Crystal Empire, and you just risked all of it for a friend! I can't imagine anything more brave than that. As the Princess of Friendship, I try to set an example for all of Equestria. But today, it was Spike who taught me that a new friend can come from anywhere. I guess everypony still has things to learn about friendship. Even me! And if Spike says Thorax is his friend, then he's my friend too.
Right about what?
I bet you boys have big plans. Right, Spike?
Buh-bye!
We should just close the door and let them finish... whatever this... is.
I've read every book on the subject, and I've never read a thing about any creature other than a pony getting a cutie mark.
Um, I don't know if any of you remember, but using magic to get a cutie mark never really works out all that well.
Crusaders, I'm sorry. While I can't say for certain that it's utterly impossible, the chances of Gabby getting an actual mark are... pretty slim. Everything I've ever learned tells me. It's just not gonna happen.
Gabby? You just missed her. She was in such a hurry, she didn't even come in. Just dropped this letter and zoomed away!
Wait a second. Cutie mark?
You actually got a griffon a cutie mark for the first time in recorded history?! You know what this calls for? A full-scale research project!
You have got to get Gabby back here right away! I have so many questions! Oh, I hope I have enough ink and parchment to document everything! Spike! Guess what just happened!
I know Las Pegasus doesn't seem like either of your cups of tea, but I have total faith you wouldn't have been called unless you were the perfect ponies for the job.
I've prepared a full day of spells. You've been doing great, but now it's time for a real challenge!
Teleportation! Multiple locations! Try to keep up!
Transfiguration!
Shields!
Maybe there is such a thing as too much studying.
I have to admit, your skills with magic really are nothing short of amazing. I'm very impressed.
However, it doesn't look like you've tackled any friendship lessons since you met Trixie.
I'm sure.
No time like the present! Spike and I are headed to Canterlot. Princess Celestia wanted me to give her students a quick overview on the history of enchanted objects in Equestria. We'll be back after the presentation, which should be...
Tonight. It's a quick presentation.
You can tackle a friendship lesson today, and we can review your progress when I get back later this evening.
Great! Can't wait. Now, Spike, help me color-code these cards according to time, place, and object.
What is going on?!
I finally untangled that mess of a spell and got everypony home. It was really powerful stuff. They're gonna feel that in the morning. Now please try to explain to me how in the name of Celestia things got this out of control.
I think you might be missing the point here.
What made you think that casting a spell on your friends to do your bidding was even remotely a good idea?
That's because it is really bad!
Starlight, I'm not mad at you, but I am disappointed. You've been doing so well. I just don't understand how a friendship lesson turned into all of this.
Why?
Baking a cake freaks you out?
Starlight, do you think anypony cares if you can bake a cake?
Was to get to know Pinkie Pie better by doing something she loves. It was a friendship lesson, not a baking lesson.
Now it's time for a pretty advanced friendship lesson. It's called apologizing.
It seems your apology went well.
What do you mean? You've been doing them all day.
Really? But didn't I see you sewing with Rarity?
And you and Applejack did a great job collecting those photos and putting them in the book. Helping animals with Fluttershy, baking with Pinkie Pie <U+0096> those sound like your assignments to me. In fact, I think there's just one that you're missing.
Sorry, Spike. It's just Pinkie Pie, Rarity, and Applejack are getting back from their Seaward Shoals boat trip, and I can't wait to hear all about it! It's such a shame Rainbow Dash and Fluttershy had to miss it for their Cloudsdale flight school reunion. Maybe the rest of us not going was for the best anyway. I know the three of them were really looking forward to getting out of their element.
I think they all just wanted to try something new.
My only worry is that they'll be so excited, they'll talk over each other, and I'll miss some of the details! Just to be safe, I may need you to take notes.
So how was the trip?
I don't know what happened on that boat trip. But once Rarity, Applejack, and Pinkie Pie have some tea and talk it out, I'm sure everypony will feel better.
Come on in, everypony! Gummy, Opalescence, and Winona? This is a surprise!
"Sorry, darling, but I must decline the invitation to your soiree. While I'm sure it will be positively resplendent, there are certain ponies I'd rather not associate with at the moment. Rarity."
"Sorry I can't make it, but I'm still a mite upset about everything that happened on the boat. Applejack." "Sorry I can't make the tea party today, but there's a small problem with the guest list. Plus, I'm right in the middle of a very important cupcake. Pinkie." Come on, Spike! Since our friends won't come here and tell us what happened, we'll just have to go to them!
I don't know, Rarity. Maybe you could<U+0097>
About that. Spike and I were wondering what happened out there.
Hmm... That doesn't sound like Applejack.
So Applejack got some sort of sea madness and caused the boat to capsize?
Rarity, I don't suppose there's any chance you might be... uh, exaggerating things? Just a little?
We thought there was a chance she might have... embellished the story just a tad. So we wanted to hear about what happened from you! Did Applejack really capsize the boat?
I knew it!
Wait, wait, wait. That doesn't sound like Rarity.
That seems... odd. I mean, we trust you, of course. But it's all so... extraordinary?
Good idea. She'll straighten this out.
Do you want to say it, or should I?
Wait, so it was Rarity and Pinkie's fault?
Neither do I, Spike. Neither do I.
There's gotta be some way to fix this. If Applejack, Pinkie Pie, and Rarity keep not talking to each other, they could forget what good friends they really are!
Their stories were different, but they also had a lot in common.
Not quite.
A-ha! Not only do I think I know how the boat sank, I have a pretty good idea how to get Rarity, Applejack and Pinkie Pie back together!
Sorry, but I just didn't know how else to get the three of you here together, and there really is a friendship emergency! Yours!
I know you each have a different perspective on how the boat capsized and blame each other, but if you come on the boat with me I'll show you what really happened.
Don't worry, Spike. I've got it all under control. While all of your stories seem very different, they all had something in common <U+0096> cucumber sandwiches.
You also mentioned the bubbling water.
And the swell. Cucumber just happens to be the favorite food of the tri-horned bunyip, and bubbles followed by a swell is what happens when they swim up to the shallows from deep water.
Hello, bunyip, sir!
A tri-horned bunyip! Who's very sorry he accidentally knocked over your boat. Right?
Nope!
I think I can explain that too. Each of you spent so much time trying to come up with the perfect way to get the others out of their element, that you didn't notice your friends were doing the same thing!
I guess this just teaches us that even long time friends need to work at communication.
One thing's for sure, Spike. There's nothing like a luxurious adventure boat party to get you out of your element.
Well, the good news is we both got called by the map!
No. Well, not exactly.
Ooh!
Have you noticed anypony having a hard time with their friends?
You should tell them. I'm sure they'd appreciate any notes from you.
But they'll never get better if they don't know what to work on.
Classroom portion?
Maybe we can help!
Absolutely! Between your flying skills and my teaching expertise, they could learn a lot! Plus, once they get to know us, they'll be more comfortable coming to us with their friendship problems!
Thank goodness I had time to whip up a few charts on flight patterns and wing symmetry! It's fresh in my mind from when I learned to fly! This is so exciting!
I'm pretty sure their thirst for knowledge will keep them bright-eyed and bushy-tailed.
Hello, students! I'm Twilight Sparkle, and this is Rainbow Dash.
And we're here to go over basic flying technique.
It is, and we can talk personal records after class, Ms...?
Okay! Let's get back on track. Now, who can tell me the best wing angle to achieve minimal air resistance?
Well, there were a few hiccups, but overall, that went pretty well.
Aw, that's all right. We all have moments where we doubt ourselves.
Oh, well, that is very... kind of you?
Well, he may be full of himself, but I have to admit, Sky is an excellent flyer. He must have shot up two hundred feet!
I guess I didn't even notice Vapor. I was too busy watching Sky.
I think you're right! Vapor just created a gust of wind that caught Sky's wing at a forty-five degree angle, propelling him into a flipping loop! Somepony paid attention in class!
And Vapor's so busy making her friend look good, she's not focused on her own flying at all. This must be our friendship problem! And there's only one thing to do!
You don't want to tell them?
But you can't improve if you don't think you have to! Besides, Vapor's keeping a pretty big secret from Sky, and that could lead to trouble!
Actually, she's not the one<U+0097>
Vapor Trail, we know what you've been doing.
You've been helping Sky!
Why are you doing this for him?
I understand. But now you're both in trouble!
What about you?
Starting with telling Sky the truth.
Then I guess we'll give Dash's method a shot.
Sounds like my cup of oats.
This is all my fault. If we'd just done things your way, maybe we could have avoided this whole mess.
I have a plan.
Hey, Sky. I thought I might find you here.
No, you're not.
I wasn't a natural at friendship. But with some practice and help from my friends, I got better, and now I'm the Princess of Friendship!
And Vapor, you shouldn't have been so content to take a back seat.
Phew. It's good to be home.
I've been meaning to move these older books to my reference section for a while. Got to keep the new books front and center! Thank you both for your help.
Oh, please. I haven't done that much.
I may have offered some guidance, but you are responsible for the pony you've become. I'm proud to call you my student and my friend. Now we just need to get rid of these boxes. Spike, can you<U+0097>? Spike?
Is it a bird?
Oh. I usually get letters by dragon.
Are they in danger?
I understand how hard this is for you. Maybe if you took a friend along, it might make things easier. Somepony you trust who would look out for you?
Thanks, Trixie. I was talking about me.
Rude? I think a certain dragon didn't get his nap today.
Sorry. He's been acting a little off all day. I think he missed a meal or something.
Yes, it's definitely been one of those days! How are you?
I didn't want to bring it up, but yeah, it did seem strange. Did it not go well?
Wow, you should definitely never go back to that village.
If you were worried about what they thought of you before, it's probably way worse now. I'd cut my losses.
Trust me. I'm the Princess of Friendship. You don't need those ponies. You can always make more friends.
Ah! Speaking of friends, if you'll excuse me, important business to attend to!
I told you you can never speak to them again!
Making sure you do what I said! I'm your teacher, aren't I? Didn't I say to never come back here?!
Is it ready?
Oh, right.
Starlight? What happened?
Shhh!
"Sparkle"? Yeah, we are. So do you think she'll like it? I want this present to say, "I'm so proud of you both as a mentor and a friend. Equestria is safer thanks to you."
I am.
It's just what her room needs. The first thing she'll see when she wakes up is herself surrounded by all her friends. I plan on giving it to her after the ceremony.
Nah. Pinkie Pie's got that covered.
Starlight, Trixie, Thorax, and Discord were brave in the face of danger, resourceful when things got challenging, and proved that the bonds of friendship, no matter how unlikely, are stronger than any adversity. By stopping Queen Chrysalis, not only did they save Equestria; they set the changelings free from her reign.
We are so proud of you all!
My cheeks are sore! I don't think I've ever smiled this much in my life!
Oh, don't you worry. I've planned enough friendship lessons to cover the next three years.
What's so funny?
Of course I was.
Yep.
You do?
Discord, no!
No, no, no! She's already good at that! She mastered this! She taught me about this one!
I had years worth of friendship lessons ready to go, but when we were captured by Chrysalis, Starlight took charge and really stepped up. I don't think friendship lessons are enough for her anymore.
That's why I had to talk to you. You, of all ponies, would know what to do. I mean, you were me and I was Starlight. But, for now, I need you to pretend you're you and I'm me.
When I was your student, and you were in this place, you<U+0097> Oh, no! You sent me to Ponyville! Which means it's time for me to send Starlight Glimmer away!
I can't believe it! It's really time for Starlight to go, isn't it?
No. This is something I have to do. Oh, boy.
Gosh, I don't know... I just don't want to send her to the wrong place... I just, I just don't know... I got it! Since defeating Chrysalis, Starlight's given the changelings an opportunity to revolutionize their society. Maybe I can send her there.
If Starlight goes to the changeling hive, she can help them adjust to their new way of life.
Thank you.
Or dangerous. It would only take one changeling to deviate from the pack.
But it could! I can't just send her off to Celestia-knows-where without thinking it through!
Rethink, rethink, rethink! What about the dragons? I can send Starlight to the Dragon Lands! She and Ember would totally hit it off!
Who knows what their dynamic would be, Spike?
Starlight will love it in the Dragon Lands. In her letters, Ember said dragons do a lot of fun things. The Feast of Fire, the Dragon Bowl, Claw-chella.
Starlight could be there for a really long time. But then again, not all dragons like ponies as much as Ember does.
What if she didn't realize it was happening?! You just never know, Spike! I just need to think of someplace safe to send her! Someplace safe, someplace safe, someplace safe... I could send her to the Crystal Empire to continue her magical studies with Sunburst!
It'll be perfect! Sunburst's knowledge of magic is only matched by Starlight's abilities.
They could challenge each other into becoming the most talented unicorns Equestria's ever seen!
Of course, the study of magic is a lifelong pursuit, and Starlight could be there for a while, especially once they start attempting the really complicated stuff!
What if they become too ambitious?!
No! Don't do it!
But it could! I just don't think I can send her anywhere. What am I gonna do?
Are you laughing at me?
I can't believe you're laughing at me.
What?!
Really?
Princess Celestia, that is so not true. I will always need you.
Maybe it is. Just a little.
Thank you.
Gee, thanks, Discord.
If I could have everypony's attention! As you all know, Starlight Glimmer's been my pupil for a while now, and I'd hoped she'd be my pupil for a long time yet to come. But it turns out that's just not meant to be.
Starlight, you have proved yourself to be a kind, loyal, strong, honest, and truly magical friend. Just looking around this room at all the new friendships you've made, I know there's nothing more I need to teach you. So we have a second reason to celebrate today. Three cheers for Starlight Glimmer on her graduation day!
The future's in your own hooves now.
Congratulations.
So how do you feel?
Believe me. I've thought long and hard about this.
Starlight, trust me. You're ready.
What are you talking about?
Oh, good! 'Cause I'm not ready for that either! Here! I got you this present. It was going to be a "congrats on getting a medal of honor" present, but then I was afraid it would have to be a going-away present, but now it's an "I couldn't be happier you're staying" present! It fits perfectly over your dresser! I know. I measured.
I may not know what comes next for you, but whatever it is, I promise I'll always be there for you.
Oh.
I am so excited for this friendship retreat! I can't remember the last time we all got to hang out without having to save Equestria.
I was speaking in a broader sense. Are you sure you don't want to come with us?
Huh?
Oh, how... thoughtful, thanks. We will... not get hungry on the train.
You, too!
Oh, it's not that kind of retreat.
Nope! It's because we get locked in a room and we have to solve puzzles and riddles in order to escape!
Team-building!
Could be? Some of the brightest minds in Equestria put together these puzzles!
This is it! I'm so impressed.
I wish that Starlight was here to see how strong friendships can be when we trust each other and work together! You've all taught me so much.
Friendship used to make me so queasy, queasy But you made it all so easy, easy Now I don't have to say what I'm thinking You already know without even blinking
I simply can't imagine there'd be a day Where I wouldn't want to be walking your way Whatever new problems there may be, may be Our friendship is always the door with the key
The sparks that make my world go 'round
Hey, girls! How'd it go?
...What?
You've barely graduated, and you're already taking initiative! Oh... So proud...
Sounds good to me!
I'm never too busy to visit sick foals. I can't believe a whole class just came down with the horsey hives!
We'll do our best. We'll bring snacks, I'll read to them, and get them gifts!
We'll see you soon!
It's a lot, but if we stick to the schedule, I know we can get it all done.
Oh, my gosh! How's my favorite niece?
Busy? Would the best aunt ever be too busy to spend time with this adorable little one?
No!
Flurry! I've got a surprise for you!
Just a couple of toys that reminded me of Flurry.
I'm excited to show you I've done some shopping for Flurry Heart.
I know, but I can't help myself! Best aunt ever! Open this one, Flurry.
Uh-huh. Totally.
Whammy. Got it. Where are you guys headed, anyway?
Mmmmh...
Have no fear! The best aunt ever has everything under control!
Oh, you want to pretend we're the bears. I suppose we have time for a quick game.
Hey! All right! I'm gonna get ya!
Got it! I'm catching up!
Uh-oh. Sorry, bug. Did that scare you? It's okay. It's just Auntie Twily!
You know, that was a very advanced spell for somepony your age. Looks like you're already taking after your Auntie Twily.
I know, Spike, we're leaving.
I just have to feed her real quick.
Aw, come on, Spike. That wasn't too bad.
Twenty minutes?! It's fine. We can totally do this.
Okay, we just need to grab some toys and we are outta here.
You want to play, don't you? Well, I know a game that's even more fun! And more efficient. Playing race carts! Ha-ha!
Woo-hoo!
Best aunt ever! Hang on, Flurry. The race cart's taking a pit stop.
Huh?! Well, we'd better get to cleaning. We've got no time to waste!
Yes! We gained back a whole five minutes from running here!
Mm-hmm!
Thanks for helping us out, Cheerilee. Sorry we were late.
Yes, but<U+0097>
Sorry, one second.
I didn't think the foals would be interested in The Unabridged History of Amulets in pony Latin.
Mmm, too long.
Well, the science there is preposterous<U+0097>
Let's borrow that for you and keep looking.
What else?
Ooh, that was one of my favorites when I was a filly! We'll take it!
Cheerilee, I am so, so sorry! I didn't even hear her leave!
There, all clean.
Ehh...
What?! Cancel?! We can't cancel, Spike! The sick foals are counting on us! And the B.A.E. would never throw in the towel like that!
"Best Aunt Ever"? Besides, this errand is gonna be different.
Because Flurry can play with the Cake twins and stay out of trouble! Best aunt ever!
Wonderful! They're friends already!
Thanks! Wait, you doubted me?
Spike, you watch Flurry. I'll take care of everything else. Hi, Pinkie! How's it going? I need to pick up the cupcakes for the foals at the hospital! And can you do apology treats?
Do you still have a giant file on everypony's favorite treat?
Hee-hee! Remind me to tell you later how amazing you are. Cheerilee?
Great! Can you write "sorry" on them?
Hold on, sweetie. We'll play in a second.
The salespony at the toy store...
Oh, no. You're making the same face Cheerilee made. Pinkie, remind me what your favorite treat is.
We'll take three of those.
Out of the question! We are not cancelling! It's going to be okay! It has to be okay! It's been so terrible so far it can't possibly end up<U+0097> Oh...
No, I needed it.
Four and a half?!
"...and while nopony had ever tried to reach Cloudsdale on hoof, Gusty the Great was not deterred! She and her unicorn warriors marched up the hill. But suddenly, they encountered..."
"It was the treacherous Grogar..."
"...and Gusty could tell he was ready for battle. Gusty called out to the unicorn warriors<U+0097>" Ow! Not right now, Flurry. These foals really want to hear this.
"'We can fight Grogar together!' And the unicorn warriors shot magical beams into the clouds that wove into one! The beam, stronger than a thousand armies, shined down!"
"It wrapped around Grogar and pulled him to the ground! 'Don't let him escape!', yelled Gusty!"
"Grogar was strong, for fear gave him power, and he broke through the bonds!"
I know! So good, right?
Spike, you're floating. You're floating!
Flurry, honey, you need to stop this. Put us down, please.
Nopony panic! Everything's gonna be okay!
Oh, I can't keep up with her!
Her what?!
I don't see it!
Flurry Heart! Put us all down this instant!
Is everypony okay?
Flurry, that was very, very bad! You could have hurt somepony!
Oh, Flurry, I didn't mean to<U+0097>
Sweetie, you don't have to be scared. It's just me, see?
You're scared of me. Because I yelled at you like a big scary bear. Flurry, I'm so sorry. I've been a terrible aunt today. All you wanted to do was play, and I've barely been able to pay attention to you. None of this is your fault. It's mine. So much for being the best aunt ever. But I hope you know how much I love you.
Oh, I take it you forgive me?
Thanks, Flurry. How about we head home? After we find your Whammy, of course.
Actually, not so much. Flurry got into some mischief, but it wasn't her fault. I shouldn't have agreed to watch her with such a jam-packed schedule. It was too much to juggle. But Flurry taught me an important lesson today. It turns out being the best aunt ever isn't about spending the most time with your niece, but spending quality time with her. And she taught me a really cool bear game, so I guess I learned two things.
Ohh, that would be great.
I'll have to check with Spike, but I think we're free.
A friendship problem?
Okay!
Wow, Fluttershy! I've never heard you speak with such conviction.
So what are you gonna do now?
Ooh, a library cave?
I thought you said no more experts.
Big Daddy McColt! We met each other back when the map called me and Fluttershy to the Smokey Mountains!
Don't worry. For all we know, it's something small. Like maybe the cooks are fighting over who has the best butternut squash soup. Or the royal hairdressers are fighting over a comb.
No! That's just crazy! Luna and Celestia would never fight. Again.
Psst! Pssst!
I'm not. I'm still home. It's an easy spell. I'll show you later. Anyway, enough about me. I had to check on you. Not in a meddling kind of way! In a friendly "how's it going?" kind of way. So, how's it going?
Oh, no, that's terrible! I mean, what makes you say that?
Noooooo... Heh.
Oh, I wish I could help you, but I can't <U+0096> both for map reasons and because I have no idea! This is big! Like, really big! But I'm here if you ever need to talk. Or listen to music.
Heh. Comforting, right?
Poor Celestia. That's so sweet that she makes her sister pancakes every morning.
Fair enough. So what are you gonna do?
Good luck, Starlight!
And they're Celestia and Luna. So it's not like you can just confront them.
What?! Are you crazy?! I mean, heh, you do whatever you think is best. This is your mission.
I do. But the last time the princesses fought, Luna turned into Nightmare Moon, and Princess Celestia had to banish her for a thousand years! That can't happen again!
Sorry. It's just, you said "princesses" and "aren't the best" in the same sentence, and it's making me nervous!
I'm not much help, am I?
You switched their cutie marks?! The actual princesses' cutie marks?!
He's not the only one.
This is big! Like, really big!
I already know! I mean, I don't know everything. I just got here to bring you your toothbrush! So this is just a friendly visit! Not interfering because I was worried! I wasn't! I knew you could do it, and I'm so, so, so, so, so proud of you! Tell me everything! Start from after I hyperventilated, and don't leave out any details!
I'm in here, Pinkie! What is it?
"To pink pony who lives with baked goods." It's from the yaks! "Yaks cordially invite pink pony to Yickslurbertfest. Come. Now."
It's a sacred yak holiday. How did you get Prince Rutherford to invite you?
You know, we still don't know a lot about the yaks. So I think you should definitely go to Yickslurbertfest, Pinkie.
Um, that's not an official position.
Okay, you got it.
Right. I hereby make Pinkie Pie the official friendship ambassador to the yaks!
Pinkie Pie<U+0097>
Pinkie Pie, we have to help the yaks.
Hmm?
Great idea, Pinkie. We'll be happy to help the yaks. This is what friendship is all about.
Okay then. This'll be an official covert friendship mission.
Let's get out of here before<U+0097>
Whoa!
Toola Roola, Coconut Cream, what are you doing?!
Both of you, stop!
...So you see, friendship isn't always easy, but there's no doubt, it's worth fighting for.
No... Aha! Here it is.
Come on, Starlight, don't judge a book by its cover. This is the friendship journal my friends and I used to keep. It's filled with all the things we've learned, like: "Friendship isn't always easy, but there's no doubt, it's worth fighting for."
Thanks for coming, everypony. I've got a surprise for you.
It's this!
That wasn't the only surprise.
Ta-da! Starlight and I decided to make one for each of you!
And that brings me to the second part of the surprise. My idea. How would you girls feel about making our journal available for everypony? If we can get these lessons into other ponies' hooves, maybe they'll benefit from them.
Hey, girls. Couldn't help but overhear. You might want to take a breather, maybe read Rainbow Dash's chapter on Rainbow Falls? It might help.
Oh.
Yeah, but the purpose of the journal isn't supposed to be marketing.
I just hope those foals actually learn something from our lessons.
Uh, hello! Can I... help you?
Wow! How wonderful! What was your favorite friendship<U+0097>
Oh, uh, I guess so. So, what did you think of the lessons?
Oh.
But that's not what she was saying! Rarity!
Oh, poor Rarity. She overheard all the mean things those ponies were saying. She must be devastated. I'm going after her.
Rarity, wait!
Pinkie, I've got to<U+0097>
I am so glad to hear some ponies are being inspired by the journal.
Well, at least you're getting a positive reaction. I just saw Rarity, and I'm afraid this whole journal thing really upset her.
O-kay. Well, I guess I'll catch you later.
What do you mean you skipped the lessons? We've all had valuable experiences.
Oh, what's going on now?
Fluttershy, what's wrong?
What is it, everypony?
It feels like everypony in Equestria is missing the "friendship" part of the friendship journals.
What are you doing?
For what?
Stress-sewing?
I'm sure if I go out there and talk to those ponies, they'll see that they're being unreasonable.
What's the matter, Applejack?
Applejack, who are all these ponies?
Your journal entries?
Can't you get rid of them?
I wish we'd never released that journal.
It's bad everywhere. I thought I was doing something good. I thought I was helping. How could our friendship journal have led to so much... anti-friendship?!
Of course it's my fault! If I hadn't had the big idea to make copies, none of this would be happening! I'm afraid I made life awful for my friends!
Am I?!
Yes, I did! Releasing the journal was my idea, and it backfired in ways I could never have imagined!
I can't wait any longer. I've got to fix this.
Everypony, please stop!
I moved here to learn about friendship. That's why the journal even exists. It took some time for me to get the hang of it, but it was each of these ponies standing next to me who taught me the lessons in those journals. Applejack, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, Rarity, and Fluttershy, too. Then it was all of you. I've learned so much from<U+0097>
"Believable"?
My character?! We are real ponies! This journal is a record of things that actually happened to us! We made mistakes, and we learned from them!
Wait a minute, everypony!
Listen to me! Listen to me!
I never claimed to be perfect My mistakes are all written in ink None of us claimed to be perfect And it's sad if that's what you all think
But nopony has to be perfect By now, don't you know us so well? Because, yeah
So you see, everypony? None of us ever claimed to be perfect. Without our flaws, there wouldn't be any friendship lessons to learn. Without our flaws... there probably wouldn't be any friendships at all.
Really?
Oh, I can't tell you how much it means to hear that. Thank you for telling us. We've had a tough couple of days, but knowing we've helped fillies like you...
Stay in the friendship moment, Applejack. They can wait a little longer.
Spike, everything looks great! You're getting yourself worked up for no reason.
According to Ember's letters, the dragons are trying to be friends, but competing is in their nature, and it's leading to more and more fights.
I know you feel a lot of pressure, but you've got this, Spike!
You invited Thorax over to Ponyville on the same day as Ember?!
I'm sure that won't happen. Now pull it together.
Yes, the castle! I'll give you a personal tour!
So this is my comfy chair for fictional reads. This is my studying chair because the hard back keeps me awake.
Aah!
I know. I saw you coming and had to distract Thorax by showing him chairs. Why did you bring Ember to the castle of all places?
All we have to do is make both Thorax and Ember feel special and keep them apart for a few more hours. We can do this.
I think it's the map. It's calling... you. Apparently, you also have to solve a friendship problem!
Oh, amazing! The map is really reaching out!
Not a good time? I get it.
You mean "find the friendship problem".
Ember, there you are!
How's your trip to Ponyville so far?
Oh, my.
Nooooo. They're just making sure everything is perfect for your welcome party later. In the meantime, how about I show you around town?
That's not how ponies make friends.
Actually, the bear is a changeling. And he's quite gentle.
Good job, Spike.
Are you sure that's what happened?
I'm sorry, Rarity. I'm sure nopony means to make you feel worse than you already do.
Oh, you can't just make a mane with magic. The results could be disastrous.
I don't think there's anything else we can try.
Zecora, you found a cure? That's amazing!
I think we all know how bad Rarity's been feeling, but I never thought she'd cancel her shoot with Photo Finish.
Well, she's not a lemon <U+0096> she's our friend. And right now, she needs our support.
Rarity, you're not invisible. You're our friend. A friend that started a fashion empire.
I know you lost some confidence when you lost your mane, but unlike your hair, confidence is something you can get back right now.
How'd you end up using remover potion on your head, anyway?
Yeah! Spike and I are having a cook-off!
I'm glad you're here, Fluttershy, because we're gonna need a second opinion about that.
Uh...
That's the last book on ancient ponies, and still no mention of the Mystical Mask.
Yes, and the books on rare diseases, the books on rare plants, and the entire section on bog habitation.
Oh.
Aah!
I'm fine. Fluttershy, you know that I want to help Zecora. But I think we'd be a lot better off if we got some sleep. We've been at this for hours.
No problem. I'll grab you a pillow and<U+0097>
I understand how you feel, but I still think we'd have more luck if we tried again in the morning. Just promise me you'll take a break soon.
Good night, Fluttershy.
9-by-13-inch pan...
Nonstick pans!
You did?!
The ancient sorceress from Hayseed Swamp? We studied her at Celestia's school! Are you sure?
Fluttershy, I am so incredibly proud of you for using your research skills to figure this out! But Meadowbrook lived ages ago, and didn't she disappear?
It seems like a long shot, but I guess it's possible.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. We're leaving now?
But Fluttershy, you haven't slept! And that's a long journey!
Can we at least grab some breakfast?
Aw. No sweet potato muffins?
Lead the way, Fluttershy.
So... where do you think Meadowbrook lived?
I think we might be the only ponies here.
Anypony who lives in a tree is okay by me.
Or we could try the handle.
Easy to miss.
I hope so, but let's not get ahead of ourselves.
That's exactly what I'm talking about. You're making your excited squeaking noise!
Scare ponies or rock creepily in the dark?
Honestly, I would not have guessed it.
Library?! Now we're talkin'!
Oh. Well... Libraries come in all shapes and sizes.
Are you sure these are necessary?
I said, are you sure these are necessary?
What you can't risk is getting any sicker! If you don't rest, your symptoms will only get worse!
But Fluttershy, as much as Meadowbrook took care of other ponies, I'm sure she also took care of herself.
Are you sure you don't want me to come with you?
I'm so glad you're okay. You're still in Meadowbrook's tree.
Uh...
Actually, you've been asleep for three days.
Mm-hmm. You were asleep so long, we were afraid you wouldn't be able to move when you woke up. But thankfully, you just wore yourself down!
Cattail's right. I can't even use magic to calm them down. We'll have to find another way to get the honey.
He's been through a lot these past three days.
Fluttershy, that's brilliant!
Hooves crossed!
I think she's cured now, Fluttershy.
Oh!
It's from my parents! Spike, they won a zeppelin cruise and get to take the whole family! I wish I had time to go with them, but there's just too many princess duties I have to take care of.
But, Spike, you're as much a part of my family as anypony. I can't just leave you here to do all that work.
I guess I could use a little time off from being a princess. You're the best, Spike!
I'm gonna go pack everything neatly into one suitcase!
Cruises have activities, right?! I should probably make a schedule?!
Really? I remember you getting airsick on Admiral Fairweather's Wild Ride at Pony Island.
Well, that was an... assertive welcome.
Wait. You don't know where this prize came from?
Well, I did categorize the ship's activities and make a schedule organized by each of our interests. Dad, you're easy. Bingo competition right here.
Shining Armor, they've got a tiny boat race in a tiny pool here.
And Cadance, there's a Peewee Princess Playtime here that Flurry's gonna love!
Eh. I just want to see you all have a good time. And this works out perfectly, because we have room for the one thing I wanna do! Our ship passes the Frozen North at sunset, which is the only time you can see the astrological phenomenon known as the Northern Stars. It's like the stars are shooting out of the setting sun!
Then it's settled. Hmm. But we don't have anything to do right now. Any suggestions?
How'd he know that? And why announce it on a cruise?
What? That's not right.
Um, you guys know that's not where we were born. What are you so excited about?
Um... yeah. Us, too.
What?!
Okay, that's it! Does anypony know where the cruise announcer is?
Excuse me, sir.
What are you doing here? And why do you keep announcing random things about me and my family?
And the theme of this vacation is...
Iron Will, I'm not sure it was entirely honest of you to offer this cruise to my family without telling us that ponies bought tickets just to see Cadance and me!
Wait! Iron Will, what if I offered you a deal? If I agree to do whatever princess activities you want, will you promise that my family gets to do the activities they want?
I don't want the vacation to end now or let down all these ponies who were looking forward to seeing us. So what do you say, Iron Will? Do we have a deal?
Great! So it looks like we have some time before Dad plays Bingo.
Oh. Well... who doesn't like prizes?
Thank you all for being so gracious and respectful to me and my family. And now, without further ado, the winner is...
Star Tracker!
Congratulations, Star Tracker! Enjoy your prize! Okay, Dad! Bingo time!
Uh... Oh. I'm sorry. I don't have the prize.
That's the prize?!
Okay, well... I guess you should come with us, honorary family member.
Ahem! Is everypony ready?
Dad? What did you say?
Oh. Um, thanks.
I-19!
Did you get that one, Dad? Can anypony tell me how my dad is doing?
Phew! Just made it!
And I'm ready to give you the tiny boat race of your life!
Are you sure you're not airsick, big brother?
I don't think that's how it works. But I'm ready if you are.
Oh. Well, as long as Shining Armor gets to race, I'm happy.
On your mark, get set<U+0097>
Cadance, I'm so glad you got in the Peewee Princess Playtime!
That's great. I'm just on my way to take some old-time Appleloosan photos!
And then do a quick question-and-answer session on becoming an Alicorn before Mom's barrel ride at Neighagra Falls! I really hope I don't miss that.
Mind? What? Absolutely not. I mean, you guys are having fun, right? Besides, I have to make sure these cruise ponies are happy if I want to be a good princess.
Honestly, as long as I get to see the Northern Stars tonight with everypony, I'll be happy. But right now, I gotta go take some pictures. See you later!
Oh, why did that last question have to be a two-parter? I just hope I have time for one barrel ride with Mom!
Disappointed? No! I've just been answering some detailed questions about Alicorns! You know how much I love details!
How can I when it's a totally successful vacation?
How long have you been waiting?
Oh, yeah. The cruise ponies are happy. My family is happy. Even Iron Will is happy.
You know who isn't happy? Me!
I'm sorry. But maybe that wouldn't have happened if you weren't practically standing on my tail! Not even my real family stands so close! Rrgh!
I only made that deal with Iron Will so my family and the cruise ponies could have the vacation they wanted.
I just want everypony to be happy.
You seem to know pretty well.
You're right. I think I need to set some boundaries. But first, I owe somepony an apology.
No, Star Tracker. You should stay. I have something to tell you. All of you. I'm glad you all got to do the things you wanted, but I should have stood up for myself so that I could do what I wanted, too. It wasn't fair of me to lash out at you. If I felt like you were standing too close, I should have said something. I'm sorry. What do you say we do something off the schedule?
Yup! We're gonna do something I want us to do, as a family. Honorary members, too.
Ohhh!
It's okay, everypony. First, I want to thank all of you for coming. It means a lot that you'd spend your hard-earned bits just to be with us. But I honestly came on this cruise to take some time off from being a princess. I'm just a pony, too, after all. And even though I want everypony here to be happy, I'd really like to spend the rest of the cruise relaxing with my family.
There's still plenty of activities. We pass Fillydelphia on the way back. I could give Flurry Heart a quick history tour.
You did all this for me? This is amazing! Thank you. And Shining Armor, I can't believe you're up there even though you're airsick!
Now this is the only activity I need.
Uh... Are those real measurements? How do you keep track without a recipe?
Seventy-third? That's specific.
You sure are going to a lot of trouble for Rainbow Dash's pie.
Isn't that for the pie?
Well, you have been lying to her. To all of us, actually.
Sunburst! I'm so glad you're here!
In Ponyville! Starlight's really been looking forward to your visit. Though I'm glad you're in the antique store, too. I'm usually the only one.
Oooh, look! An ancient map of Equestria made by the Mighty Helm.
Oh, wow! You have got to see this Saddle Arabian vanity!
Wow! That goes well with this ancient phoenix feather quill! We could write to each other!
Buying one is sort of like a treasure hunt.
Hliet foresettan pliht!
Why don't we look through this stuff later?
I remember that game. You two used to play it?
That's adorable.
Doesn't seem so exciting to m<U+0097>
Starlight? Where's Sunburst?
What are you talking about? Why would Sunburst be doing any of that? I thought he came to Ponyville to see you.
Oh. Everypony changes, but that doesn't mean there aren't still things you both like. You both love magic, right?
Sure. You're really good at it, and Sunburst practically knows every spell that ever was.
Heh. I try.
What's going on in here?
Uh, Starlight does have a tendency to overdo.
Maybe you just need to remind her what those things are.
Uh-oh.
I understand. But I feel like that only happens if you both let it. You still want to be friends, right?
Right...
I think you might be surprised.
Looks like somepony's dragon is going to get trapped.
So it's genuine? You can verify that this journal really belonged to Star Swirl the Bearded?!
Well, I just happen to be an expert in Olde Ponish. I mean, I've practically memorized every ancient text about Star Swirl there is!
Let's get this back to my library. I'm sure we'll figure out what happened in no time.
Two days?! I don't want to waste two seconds! I'm close to an answer. I can feel it.
The Temple of Ponhenge?! You can read that?!
"Our last stand".
This is it. Ponhenge. I can't believe it.
Uh-uh.
You're right. I suppose it was a long shot.
I guess I hoped we'd get here and the mystery would just magically be explained.
Star Swirl!? I... I've wanted to meet you my whole life! I can't believe you're here!
Star Swirl and the rest of the Pillars sacrificed themselves to save Equestria.
I think I understand Star Swirl's spell!
I know I've finished one of Star Swirl's spells before, but this one was on a whole different level! Was it an explosion of magical feedback? An evocation? A kind of incantation? It's Star Swirl, so the possibilities are endless! And once Starlight set me on the right track with his crazy hornwriting <U+0096> I mean, he was a genius, so I guess we can forgive a little messiness <U+0096> I went through the journal again, and it's amazing!
Only how Star Swirl and the other Pillars sent the Pony of Shadows to limbo!
They used their magic to open a portal between worlds <U+0096> to limbo <U+0096> and pulled the Pony of Shadows inside.
I made more!
Star Swirl thought the only way to trap the Pony of Shadows in limbo was for the Pillars to take him there.
The thing is, I think I can get them out.
First of all, you opened portals through time. And second of all, Star Swirl wrote the spell you used to do it. If he'd been here, he could have stopped it. Equestria would be safer with him in it. We have to save him.
That's the thing about limbo. It isn't one place or another. It's in between, so time stands still. If we can pull them out, it'll be like they never left. I actually built another model to demonstrate<U+0097>
If I'm right, we need to find items that are connected to the Pillars in some way.
Luckily, Star Swirl took a lot of notes. "My compatriots are as varied as the realm itself and hail from every corner of our land, bringing with them artifacts and talismans of great power."
I'm not doing anything!
I guess we don't need to figure out who should get what.
I can't believe I'm gonna meet Star Swirl the Bearded! You know, outside of my dreams.
What do you mean?
Exactly.
Starlight, Star Swirl the Bearded is the greatest wizard who ever lived. The chance to have him back in Equestria is worth the risk.
Good work, everyone. Let's do this!
It worked! We brought you back!
You and the others have been trapped in limbo for over a thousand years, but I figured out how to get you ho<U+0097>
What? Why? I mean, I don't think I can.
But I did. I brought all the Pillars back.
Oh, no!
They used their magic to open a portal to limbo.
We need to find items that are connected to the Pillars in some way.
We brought you back!
I only figured out how to bring you back.
No. I just wanted to save you. I didn't think<U+0097>
No!
He's Star Swirl! He can do anything!
But doesn't a banishing spell take a lot of power? We'd have to sacrifice the Elements for that.
Star Swirl, I don't think the Tree can survive without the Elements. If it dies, Equestria will suffer.
Seapony etiquette isn't going to help right now, Spike.
I just unleashed ultimate evil and doomed Equestria because I was obsessed with meeting my idol! Why wouldn't I be okay?!
But I should have listened to you and left things alone. Now the Elements of Harmony will be lost to fix my mistake!
Portal gate... Portal keys... Portal spells... Yes! If the Pillars can hold open the gateway to limbo, a powerful pony can do the banishing spell herself! Do you know what this means?
The Pillars don't have to leave Equestria! Even though we'll lose the Elements, we'll have the ponies that created them. And the Pony of Shadows will be banished for good!
Star Swirl knew what he was doing when he cast that spell. If I can make it even better, maybe he'll see that I take magic as seriously as he does.
I don't think you'll have to! My spell isn't finished yet, but I think we can send the Pony of Shadows to limbo without all of you having to go as well!
Do you think the map could be trying to tell us where the Pony of Shadows is?
Starlight, I'm sure Star Swirl and the others did try.
I'm sorry, Starlight, but we can't stop to talk. The stakes are too high, and we have to<U+0097>
I...
Huh? There's... a pony in there.
Are you... Stygian?
But Star Swirl says you betrayed them. You wanted their magic...
This is all a misunderstanding! If the Pillars knew how you felt, I'm sure they wouldn't have turned their backs on you. The shadow isn't who you really are. Let me help you be Stygian again.
Fight the darkness, Stygian! You don't need it anymore! Revenge isn't what you want! Friendship is!
Ugh! The shadow won't let go of him. He wants to stop, but he can't do it alone.
Thank you, Swirlstar! Uh, Star Swirl!
It's funny. I thought meeting my idol would give me all the answers I ever wanted. But instead, I forgot what I already knew. Good thing I had a student of my own to remind me.
This happened while we were gone?
Tempest! I invited her to come to Ponyville, but she wanted to spread the word of the Storm King's defeat and share what she learned about friendship.
We can't do it all alone.
No. I mean, the world is filled with so many different creatures who know nothing about friendship. We need help if we're gonna teach them all about friendship. Lots of help.
Here! They can all go here! Because we're gonna open a school!
I just have a few questions. What time should school start each day?
What's the ideal length for class? Do you test regularly?
What about class projects?
Assigned seating? Open seating? Or is that... too unstructured?
There's a big difference between attending a school and running one. It's not like there's a rule book to follow.
The EEA? I've never heard of that. Should I have heard of that?!
Okay, Spike, looks like we have a presentation to make.
Uh, hello. My name is<U+0097>
I think you'll find my curriculum meets all your requirements, Chancellor.
My journey beyond Equestria showed me firsthoof that the threats out there are greater than we imagined!
If we want to keep our land safe and create a friendlier tomorrow, we need to teach the Magic of Friendship far and wide.
Uh, more like respecting differences and communicating.
Then please, join us for Friends and Family Day. It'll be the perfect time to see our progress!
It's going to be fine. Everything about this school just feels right.
The EEA is very clear on how schools should be run. We have a huge responsibility, and I need you all to do this by the book. That means no cannons in class, Pinkie.
I know it's not some big adventure against the forces of evil, but this could be the most important thing we've ever done. I can't run a school of friendship without my best friends. Can I count on you?
About that. One thing I forgot to mention. It's not just ponies.
Princess Celestia helped me reach out to all the kingdoms. After all, friendship is something that needs to be shared with every... creature.
Welcome to the School of Friendship! I'm your headmare Twilight Sparkle. Please follow Guidance Counselor Starlight to sign in and get your class assignments. Then we can show you your living quarters.
Thank you so much for supporting the grand opening of our school. I hope you'll all join us for Friends and Family Day to see the amazing progress your students are making.
Looks like school's in session!
Take a breath, look around, it's amazing I can't believe that it's real Students galore, new ideas to explore Can't contain the excitement I feel
Wait, hold on! Not like that! Just a second! I'm not sure if that method's approved Let me take a look <U+0096> yup, right here in the book
Can't mess up, can't afford a mistake now We are shaping young minds to ignite Do it like it says in the book Now make sure you're doing it right
Make sure to do things by the book now
I get it. Things are getting off to a rougher start than expected. But that's okay!
Every school in Equestria follows these rules. As long as we do too, we'll be fine.
The EEA will be here this afternoon for Friends and Family Day. They need to see a school that follows their guidelines.
Well, then we have to try harder and make sure they do.
Another morning, another chance to inspire our students!
My friends can handle anything. They'll have these problems turned around before we know it.
Chancellor Neighsay! You're here!
Problems? Ha! Of course not! We can't wait to show you around!
Rainbow Dash! Why aren't you in class teaching?
I see. Well, Chancellor, we have other classes. We can just<U+0097>
Of course, we want to instill a sense of loyalty towards others. We encourage acts of generosity and kindness.
And appreciation for the value of laughter...
...and to always be honest in any situation.
Uh, look at the time! We'd better head to the lake for Friends and Family Day. I'm sure all the students and faculty will be there.
I-I'm so sorry, Chancellor. We clearly had some students get a little carried away.
My school teaches for all of us to work together through friendship.
Friendship isn't just for ponies!
Princess Celestia helped me reach out to all the kingdoms! When she hears you closed the school because<U+0097>!
What?!
This happened while we were gone?
We're gonna open a school!
We have a huge responsibility, and I need you all to do this by the book.
I appreciate you trying to make me feel better, but not everything can be fixed with dresses and cupcakes.
I just need some time to be alone and think.
Oh...
Everypony's already tried to cheer me up. It won't work.
What?!
Neighsay was right. I failed. The school was a disaster.
I can't go against the EEA! They're in charge of all the schools in Equestria!
But the EEA rulebook<U+0097>
You're right! Why we're doing this is way more important than how we're doing this! And we are doing this!
You already have.
Guess what? The School of Friendship is back in business!
No, Rainbow Dash is right. I owe you all an apology. I was so focused on doing things the EEA way, I didn't listen to any of you. I'm sorry. I promise, this time, we'll run the school the way friends should <U+0096> together.
Whatever you need to teach the Elements of Harmony.
I'll take care of the first part if you five can round up our class.
I can't believe it! They did learn friendship!
Sorry.
Okay. Let's review what we know.
Is everycreature alright?
Not exactly. We have another option in mind.
It's pretty clear you've already started learning friendship without your teachers. But we'd like to show you even more... if you'd come back to school?
School is back in session!
I did, Chancellor Neighsay! And I respectfully ask you to step aside, or classes will start late.
I do! It's true that my School of Friendship is EEA-unaccredited...
It's not an EEA school. It's a friendship school with its own rules. I should know. I wrote the book!
These students reminded me that every friendship is special, so the way we teach it has to be just as unique. My school is going to do things differently.
I promise you, Chancellor. My school will help protect Equestria.
This brand new school of friendship Is home to everyone
There's a griffon in the garden
Some things you just can't teach with books Some things you only know So trust your heart and let us lead And your friendship's sure to grow
Yes! Writing the rulebook was the most fun ever! I can't wait to start working on the new lesson plans!
...with some help from my friends.
Sorry, I've got a curriculum to make up.
How in the world did you figure that out, Spike?
I can't imagine Fluttershy would ever be mean to her animal friends. This sounds serious. Spike, tell everyone it's time to head back to Saddle Row!
You weren't kidding. This is worse than we thought! She's being horrible to everypony!
Fluttershy, I understand why you think you have to act this way for these customers, but there's gotta be a better way.
I knew you'd come to your senses!
Well, things might have seemed all right when you left, but they're definitely not all right now.
But, Fluttershy, why did you think you needed to be somepony else to run the shop?
I wouldn't sell yourself short. Those salespony characters all came from you!
That's what happens when you're summoned by the Map.
Actually, where you're going isn't even in Equestria.
Mount Aris, the home of the Hippogriffs! And that's where you're headed!
I know that. But I'm not so sure the ponies who care about you want you going off so far on your own. Besides, there's some school business I need to take care of on Mount Aris. This permission slip is for Silverstream. It's very important that her mother and father sign it, or else no field trips.
Okay, yes, I have been wanting to visit Mount Aris ever since the Hippogriffs moved back. But it's purely research. Silverstream's brother is gonna meet us there and take us to their houses.
I guess so. The social structure of the Hippogriffs and seaponies is a bit of a mystery.
Wait, what? She told you she defeated him? By herself?
I don't know. But Hippogriffs don't have cutie marks. So it might not have anything to do with that at all.
The Map doesn't really work like that. But I'm sure you and whoever needs help will find each other.
But others got used to living under the water and stayed in Seaquestria.
Well, I'm pretty eager to see the Hippogriff village. You know, to... get this form signed. And... research! So...
Whoa! This looks amazing! Last time I was here, it was a ghost town!
Absolutely! And to have you sign a form for Silverstream.
Eh. Research. See you later! And good luck! I know you'll find your mission!
Hey, everypony! This festival is fantastic! Look what I won at the ring toss booth! Ahem. But of course, I'm really here on business. Sky Beak's already signed the form. Now I just need your mom's signature. Is she around?
That's what Silverstream meant by "houses"!
Well, she is one of our most hardworking students. In fact, I brought this form for you to sign so that<U+0097>
That sounds adorable! I'd love to! And you know, to find out about aquatic pony early development and, uh...
Why not? Could be another trophy in my future! Be back soon!
Uh, what's going on? Where's Terramar?
Well, of course not. Why would you think that?
Whoever said that he had to choose?
Hmmm... Maybe Terramar's making it harder than it has to be.
Actually, we're right in the middle of<U+0097>
Thank you, really. I've had a great time in both places today, but... Wow. This must be how Terramar feels all the time.
Congratulations! Your first map mission is a success!
Princess Celestia, I have an idea for your ones-versary.
The one-thousand, one-hundred, eleventh year anniversary of when you first raised the sun.
To commemorate your first sunrise, I've written a play. We'd like to perform it at my School of Friendship, if you don't mind.
I didn't know you used to act!
And you still can! Princess Celestia, we would be honored if you would be the star of our play!
If you'll excuse us for a second... Don't you see, Spike? It's perfect! Princess Celestia has always wanted to be in a play, and this one's about her!
She's also our friend. Celestia's always kind to everypony. So if we have a chance to finally do something for her, we should.
Come on. How many times has Celestia helped us? Guided us? Been a warm, calming voice over our shoulder?
<U+00A0>Yes, Princess Celestia?
Experience? Pssh! You'll be playing yourself. And we'll all help you. Please? It'd mean so much to the students if you were in our show.
Wonderful news, everypony!
Even better. Princess Celestia is gonna be our star!
Well, she was a little nervous at first, but I told her not to worry. With us helping, it will all go smooth as<U+0097>
I'm a princess. You talk to me.
Uh, thanks. Celestia wants to experience the special friendship that theater ponies have. To give her that, you just need to be yourselves.
Page one, act one, scene one. Action!
Even I can't believe how good my play is! The sets, the props, the outfits <U+0096> they're all great!
Um, that's your cue, Celestia.
And your delivery was... great! But maybe you should try it a tiny bit louder for the ponies in the back row.
No, no! You're doing... fine! Why don't we try it one more time? Just like you're talking to me.
A bit more energy.
Great! Wow! It's hard to believe you've never done this before! Let's move onto the dance number!
What are we gonna do?! If I tell Celestia she's terrible, it'll hurt her feelings, and I'll be a bad friend. But if I keep her in the show, she'll be the laughingstock of Equestria, and I'll be a worse friend.
Any other suggestions?
Real suggestions?
You... did?
Just the bright light of hope being snuffed. But that's okay. If we can't cancel the show, I know what I have to do.
Not a chance!
And so is making another pony's dreams come true. Look, I promised Celestia that this time, she could be a part of the play instead of just watching it. And I plan to keep that promise.
No-no-no-no-no-no-no. More like a special workshop with other actors. To... take your performance from good to flawless.
Princess Celestia, meet Method Mare performers On Stage and Raspberry Beret!
How's it going over here?
Please give me something to be happy about.
Do I wanna know?
What are they doing now?
Yeah!
Okay! I tried and tried and tried! But we have to face facts. We can't make Celestia an actress. So there's only one thing to do!
No!
I've rewritten the script to give Celestia a more artistic part with no lines.
Uh, Pinkie? That looks unsafe.
I-I'm so sorry! I didn't mean to insult your acting! It's just, I-I got so stressed! But... that's no excuse for what I said. You have every right to be upset with me.
You're not?
Celestia, wait!
Princess Celestia! Please wait! Can we talk?
All right then. Just listen. You've guided me since I was a filly. You've given me knowledge and advice and friendship. Just once, I wanted to be able to give something back to you. I know what I did was wrong. I should've told you the truth. But I promised you could be in our play. I had to make it work. Nothing would make me feel worse than knowing I disappointed you.
Of course! I look up to you more than any pony I've ever met! I hate to let you down. Like I did.
About a hundred times. And now, because I didn't listen to her, I've ruined your whole ones-versary.
But how? I mean, if I'm being completely honest... you're not an actress.
Oh, no! Hecklers! What should we do?
Ah! In all the commotion, we forgot we don't have a sun! What do we do?!
Thank you for saving our play, Princess Celestia.
Y-You... what?!
You sure are. And it must be a special one. Nopony outside of Ponyville has ever been called before.
You've been on one, Spike.
And the Friendship School Teacher of the Month is... Fluttershy!
The award is based on the students' vote. They must really like you.
Congratulations, Fluttershy!
Next item of business <U+0096> I've been looking into a new activity for our friendship classes. Spike?
Section one-forty-seven, paragraph two states that teamwork is a key part of friendship. And section two-two-nine, paragraph nine says outdoor activity reinforces learning. Add that together, and what do you get?
Mm-mm. A teamwork field trip. Leading it is a Teacher of the Month-type job, so I thought I'd ask<U+0097>
Of course! Who better to model the importance of working as a team?
Both of you are teamwork experts. If the students see the two of you teaching together, they'll learn even more. I know you've been competitive in the past, but I'm sure you'd never let that get in the way of friendship education.
All right, class. Today you'll learn how important working together is for building a strong friendship.
And what teamwork activity do you two have planned for today?
I bet that's exactly what your teachers had in mind. Why don't you start with shed building first?
I'll check in later to see how it's going. Remember to work together!
How's the canoeing... going?
I can't believe this! You're not teaching teamwork! You're competing with each other! I thought you were past that!
The Teacher of the Month wouldn't care about being the Teacher of the Month! I know Fluttershy would be thrilled to see another pony win. That's it! I'm taking over this field trip!
Hmmm... Maybe you two have learned something, after all.
Well...
Fine. But I'm picking the next activity you two lead. A nature walk. Nopony could possibly argue over that. Right?
Huh? How was the field trip? What did you all learn?
Really...?
Thank you for telling me. I'm so glad to hear your field trip was a success. I'll make sure to schedule another one right away.
You were actually just competing the entire time, weren't you?
I can't believe you're still asleep!
It's nearly noon, and you promised to help me with my lecture for class today!
Um, on second thought... You can go back to sleep if you want.
Spike, what are you doing?
I'm sure it feels terrible, but it's just a breakout. It's not the end of the world.
I used to get terrible breakouts any time I had a final exam with Celestia. Who probably never had a blemish her whole life.
No, but these things can be stress-related. And you did spend yesterday with Rarity.
You could try Zecora. She makes a cream that<U+0097>
Fine. But you're still gonna help me practice my lecture.
The element of generosity and its importance in relation to the other Elements of Harmony<U+0097>
My lecture!
It's okay. I'm sure I can rewrite the lecture from my notes. I have a lot.
Maybe you should leave the castle after all. And go somewhere less... flammable?
Spike, what are you doing?
Danger?
Well, I was headed to Zecora's to get some cream for your scales. I had no idea you were<U+0097>
Molt smell?
Was that Rarity?
Spike?! How did you get wings?!
Do you think you can fly up and distract him while I work on freeing Zecora and Rarity?
Spike!
This is amazing! I didn't know if you'd ever get wings. I'm so happy for you. Does it have something to do with this molt you were talking about?
Go? What are you talking about?
Well, this isn't the Dragon Lands, and molt effect or no, I don't want you going anywhere.
You're supposed to grow up, but you'll always be you. And whatever happens, we'll get through it together.
Uh, I don't need to carry you anymore, do I? You have wings.
Good morning, class. Today, we're going to learn about friendship through the ages. Spike, slide one, please.
Back in the days of Chancellor Puddinghead... Uh, Spike?
Yes, Spike. As I was saying... Huh? What are you three doing here?
But why?
I see. Why don't you three come with me? Spike, you're in charge.
No, thanks, Starlight. I've got this.
I'm sorry to have to tell you this, but... you can't be my students.
Yes, but we teach friendship lessons here. You already know all about helping ponies in need and being there for each other.
You need Cheerilee's classes, not mine. Hurry up. You don't want late marks on your permanent record.
Spike?! What did you do?
Ahem. I'd like to see you three in my office!
I can't believe you'd do something like this!
You are Cozy Glow's tutors, aren't you?
That's what she told me. So you've been setting her up to fail?
I know you're upset that I won't let you come to my school, but to teach Cozy all the wrong things out of spite... That's just cruel!
Then how do you explain these friendship test answers? "What are the six Elements of Harmony?" Five turtlenecks and a cheese grater? "Who is the Princess of Friendship?" Your mom?
Me neither. I never thought you three would pull such a mean prank. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to ask you to stay away from my school. And my students.
I know that. Now. Which is why I wanted to talk to you.
Thank you, Cozy Glow. Honesty is one of the pillars of friendship. But you already know that. Which is why I'd like to give you these.
And if you're interested, I think Starlight has a place for you at my school after all.
And that's why this school needs you as our guidance counselor.
I've been planning this retreat for weeks, and we're already ten minutes behind! Where is that photographer?!
Hmm. At least our retreat isn't too far behind schedule. Get ready for fun!
Both! We've all been so busy teaching, we've hardly had a chance to hang out with each other. And I may have scheduled some friendship activities as well!
Right next to the Elements that brought us all together in the first place <U+0096> the Tree of Harmony!
Right. Roses. Fun. Now, let<U+0092>s try and stay on schedule.
Pinkie! If we keep stopping to have fun, we're never gonna get to the fun things I've got planned!
Oh, fantastic. First Pinkie races ahead of us, and now Fluttershy's lost somewhere behind us. My retreat is off to a great start!
I'll find Pinkie Pie.
Pinkie! There you are! What are you doing?
I thought you were racing to the retreat.
What? Rainbow Dash! I think something's wrong with Pinkie!
Oh, great. You upset Fluttershy, too?
Well, if my friends don't care about the retreat I planned for them... maybe they should've stayed home!
Of course I care about Fluttershy!
Well, I'm sorry, Pinkie! If I knew you thought this was a "boring, lame, no-fun retreat", I wouldn't have invited you in the first place!
Everypony, quiet! Listen. We know each other really well <U+0097> the great stuff and how to get on each other's nerves, too. I wanted a fun trip with my friends. But instead, I got carried away with plans and ruined everything. If you want to forget it all and head home, I won't be offended. I just want us to stop fighting.
So... does that mean you still want to have the retreat?
Let's get to that Tree. I have the whole campsite set up and ready.
Are you kidding me?
You know, if we can survive a day like this, I think our friendship is strong enough to handle anything the world can throw at us.
Who can tell me what these are?
You're right, Ocellus. This is the Amulet of Aurora, the Talisman of Mirage, the Helm of Yksler, the Crown of Grover, Knuckerbocker's Shell, and Clover the Clever's Cloak.
Princess Celestia gifted these to our school, since they each represent one of the cultures our students come from. And we'll learn all about them in a Spell-venger Hunt!
It's a magical scavenger hunt. Each of you will work in pairs to try to find where in the school these artifacts are hidden.
Gallus and Silverstream, sounds like you're our first pair!
What? They'll make a great team.
Wait. You all were called on this friendship quest, too?
Don't worry, everypony. I already have a seventy-point plan in place for this very situation.
You're the perfect choice! You're a good leader and an expert in friendship. I trust you to run this school exactly as I would.
Which is why I've prepared everything you need.
The curriculum, rules for the Spell-venger Hunt, dining hall menus for the next six months...
...and Spike. Anything that isn't covered in my files, he'll be able to help you with.
I knew I could count on you.
Discord! I can't believe you tricked us into going on a friendship quest that wasn't real!
Thanks for taking care of the school, Starlight.
It's also about putting aside differences to come together, like the Earth ponies, Pegasi, and unicorns did on the first holiday.
I think you'll all enjoy the time off to be home with your families. To celebrate your own traditions. Attention, everycreature! School is officially out! Happy holidays, and we'll see you after the break!
And for those of you traveling outside Equestria...
Go pack up, and we'll take you to the station.
You'll have to wait and see.
Everything's ruined <U+0096> that's what's happened!
Outside!
Hello? Is anypony there?
Has anycreature come in here?
But whoever did it had to have come in here! We saw them!
We don't know what happened. Maybe this wasn't even on purpose. But I want to give whoever caused this mess a chance to tell the truth and explain themselves. I'll make it easy for you. Close your eyes. Now, if you did this, raise your hoof. Or claw. Or whatever.
Come on, Spike. Looks like we have to<U+0097> Spike, you can open your eyes.
You all can.
But since nocreature took responsibility for this mess, you're all gonna have to help clean it up before you can go home.
While you're cleaning, we'll bring you into my office one at a time. Since honesty is one of the Elements of Harmony, we want to give you each a chance to tell us the truth.
The guilty party won't be going home over Hearth's Warming break. She or he will stay here for some one-on-one friendship lessons.
Then... I guess there's no holidays for anycreature. You'll all stay over the break.
All right, let's get to the bottom of this. Who wants to be interviewed first?
Ocellus? Your turn.
You don't have to. We already know.
I'm proud that you did, and I'm glad to see you've been paying attention in Professor Applejack's honesty classes. But you're still going to have to make amends and stay over break for extra friendship lessons by yourself.
Since you obviously know that Hearth's Warming is about coming together, I'd be honored if all of you would join my friends as guests at our holiday table.
After we finish cleaning up.
"I hope you find these postcards enjoyable, and I look forward to seeing you again, though I can't say when my journey will be complete. Your friend, Star Swirl.
I'm not sure I'll ever get used to it. Of course, if he really wants to learn about friendship, he could just come to our school.
It's not that. It's this!
Who would open another friendship school?
There's more ponies in here than at our whole school. Who is running this place?
Flim and Flam. Of course.
That may be so, for all I know But I still smell a rat
What?! No, it isn't!
How can anypony learn friendship in half the time?
Accredited?
Chancellor Neighsay?!
How could they use friendship as a weapon?!
You can't be serious. They're obviously up to something. It's Flim and Flam!
I<U+0097> No! What?! I-I am not!
I'm sorry, but approval from the EEA won't convince me that this school is what you promise.
Well, somepony whose opinion I respect, for one.
Star Swirl? What are you doing here?
I... I don't understand. Why would you come here and not my school?
You can't trust Flim and Flam! They tried to con the Apples out of their farm! They sold fake health tonic! They run a resort in Las Pegasus!
I wish I could believe that.
I don't know. But I know they're up to something. And until I find out, I'm begging you, come to my school instead.
You don't think they're running an actual friendship school, do you?
But we can't go poking around the school. Everypony'll think I'm still just "threatened by the competition".
I don't know, Rarity.
Sorry, "Plainity". But I'm pretty sure this isn't enough of a disguise.
My name's Eyepatch. I have an eye patch.
I think we should split up. You enroll in some classes and find out what they're actually teaching. I'll look around and see what I can find, assuming I'm not recognized.
Hello? The door is open, so I'll just assume it's okay to come in and look around. Unless somepony says it's not. All right, then.
"The Element of Laughter and its applications." Okay, that seems pretty genuine. "When to support your friends' decisions and when to talk sense." Huh. That's actually kind of interesting. Aha! "Friendship University's true goal... is to help friends become better friends"? Where is the proof that it's all a scam?
No, I didn't!
I'm not envious! I know these two are up to something. I'm just trying to find out what.
You could say that. Flim and Flam took a picture of me sneaking into their office.
If I don't stop investigating, they're going to tell everypony that I'm trying to sabotage their school because I'm jealous.
I don't know. Maybe I am just upset that Star Swirl came here instead of my school. Flim and Flam may have turned over a new leaf. We should probably just go home.
Wait, what?!
Flim and Flam are charging for these?
Let's find out.
My reputation isn't worth much if I won't risk it for what I think is right. Besides, I have a plan.
But shouldn't it go closer to the pudding hot tub here?
I knew your school was a scam!
And I suppose I'll just lead your students into this secret room of bits and resort expansion plans!
I don't think so. You can destroy my reputation if you want, but using your students' bits to expand your resort is wrong, even if the lessons you teach are good ones.
Fine. If you really want to call it even, give back the bits and stop charging for my lessons. Then you can teach them as much as you like.
"Of course, if I ever go to a school again, I'll make sure it's yours. In friendship, Star Swirl."
You both are. Because together, you perfectly demonstrate my lesson on compromise in friendship. Rainbow Dash and Rarity have very different interests that keep them busy. But being friends is so important to them, they always manage to make time for each other.
But you still found time to be together, and that's what counts. See, class? These ponies are models of true friendship in action.
Thanks for stopping by! Enjoy your day of fun!
Even though Rainbow Dash and Rarity enjoy doing different things, there are plenty of reasons why they're friends.
Actually, that's a great idea!
Just go about your day of fun as you normally would. You won't even know we're here!
Uhhh, see? They did something Rainbow Dash likes, so now it's time for something Rarity likes. Compromise!
Rainbow Dash and Rarity are just, uh, showcasing an aspect of friendship called "banter", the playful and friendly exchange of remarks. It's all in good fun.
See, everycreature? That didn't take long. Now they're having a great time together.
Uh-oh.
Surely, you don't mean that. You're just having a little disagreement. Sometimes that happens between pals. But no matter what, they can always get past the problem and stay good friends.
No! It's goooone!
The Amulet of Aurora!
That amulet can reverse the tides and summon tsunamis! If it falls into the wrong hooves, Equestria will be in grave danger!
Thank you! I'll feel so much better knowing you two are looking for it together!
Not exactly.
See? Good friends always work through their differences.
It's called a yovidaphone. It's from Yakyakistan, where it's actually quite popular.
Not exactly. It's known to produce a fairly complicated, melodically rich, and harmonious tone.
Oh, I don't think that's necessary, Pinkie.
Well, I, for one, am glad you're having so much fun with your new hobby.
And it's great that you're learning a new skill, and... and you're just waiting for me to finish talking so you can start playing again, aren't ya?
Okay, so maybe she isn't good yet. But she's our friend, and we should be supportive.
You're absolutely right, Spike. Sometimes it is nice to get out of the library and be in the sun.
Is it really that bad?
Uh, a trophy?
Okay, maybe we can just pretend she's really good, and then I'll find a spell that will<U+0097>
You're right. We'll just have to tell Pinkie Pie she's not very good at the yovidaphone.
Pinkie, we all support you, but we're afraid you're just not good at the yovidaphone, and none of us want you to waste your time on something you can't do well.
Another beautiful day in Ponyville.
Hmmm, not since we told her to stop playing the yovidaphone. I'm still surprised with how well she took it.
That's not good.
I saw.
I'm sure there is, Spike. We just have to figure out what.
And that's exactly what we'll show her! I bet if we get her to do the stuff she likes and is good at doing, she'll cheer right back up and forget all about the yovidaphone.
So, I'm guessing nopony had any success?
Well, not to worry. I came up with the perfect solution. Instead of trying to remind her what she's good at, we'll remind her what she's best at. And that's being our friend. We're gonna throw her a Pinkie Pie Appreciation Party!
Then I hereby officially declare today Pinkie Pie Appreciation Day!
No need. Gummy's on it. In fact, there he is now!
Fluttershy, can you understand what he's saying?
Maybe we should just go and get her.
Um, Maud? Can I ask you a question?
Okay, let's try this a different way. Why did you pack up all of Pinkie's things?
Maud, I don't understand. Why would Pinkie leave Ponyville?
We can't just march up there and tell Pinkie what to do.
Well, we may not be able to go to Yakyakistan and force her to come home, but we could go say goodbye... and if we happen to mention how much her friendship means to us, and how much we'd miss her if she were gone forever, and then she decided to come back home on her own...
We're almost there.
The music of the yovidaphone.
Oh, I'm sure. Come on.
Pardon me!
Maybe we can help with that.
But we just wanted to remind you how much you mean to us, and how much we'd miss you if you decided to move here for<U+0097>
Pinkie, what's wrong?
Playing it makes you so happy.
Then you should never stop.
And we were wrong.
And a-one...
Trixie, that was an amazing show!
Of course it was! There's nothing better than a bond with another pony. You can share all kinds of things.
Wow! They do look pretty amazing... uh, -ly unamazing. Trying so hard to look amazing is what I mean.
Sorry. I was just... um...
They were doing an autograph session before practice.
Actually...
That's kind of the whole draw. It's exciting.
You can't control her actions. Only yours. Teach her what's safe and what isn't, like a good role model. Then hope she makes the right decisions.
I think I know somepony else who might get hurt if that happens.
That was awfully specific.
Scootaloo, are you sure that's what you really wanna do?
Of course, Professor Fossil! We'd be honored to have a Pillar of Equestria on our staff!
So, join me in welcoming Professor Rockhoof to our faculty!
So, um... everycreature dismissed. We'll... see you in class!
From what Professor Fossil said, it sounds like Rockhoof just hasn't settled into modern times yet. Our school is the perfect place for that. Plus, we get a new teacher.
Uh, Professor Rockhoof?
Sorry to interrupt. Class, why don't we go ahead and take lunch early today? Rockhoof, can we take a walk outside?
Our school is about finding your own special way to teach.
But maybe you could do a little less smashing in the classroom?
I know it's a big change. But I think you're gonna fit in just<U+0097>
Rockhoof, wait!
What are you doing?!
They do it all the time. That's what we were trying to tell you.
So apparently, finding Rockhoof a new job is a lot harder than we thought. Has anypony had any luck?
We did.
Great idea! Rockhoof's old friends would be happy to help. And I bet he'd love to visit them.
Princess Celestia was happy to find a new drill sergeant for her guard!
Your work is beautiful.
Somnambula's a motivational speaker. Bet they didn't even have those back in your time.
Hey, look what I found! Me and My Shadow, the third hit novel by former villain Stygian! I'm impressed! He's really thriving!
Rockhoof? Where are you going?
Hmm. I might know just the thing.
Maybe they just like cruises?
Oh, no. Stars can move slowly over time. They must look different now than over a thousand years ago.
Hey, mistakes happen. We'll think of something else for you to do.
No!
No!
No!
Rockhoof wants me to cast a spell to turn him into a statue! The answer is no!
The answer is still no! Why would you want to be turned into stone?
But there has to be a better way!
But you're not! Rockhoof, wait! Spike, can you teach my class today?
Only because it's temporary. As soon as I think of a new solution, we'll wake Rockhoof up. I know he has more to offer the world as a pony than a statue.
Okay, I have the spell. But will you please reconsider? Rockhoof?
Wait. You said there wasn't anything in this time you were good at. What about telling stories?
One that captured the hearts and imagination of everycreature here.
As the Princess of Friendship, I'd like to appoint you as Equestria's official keeper of tales!
Eh.
You are a living record of our history. Your stories can inspire and teach generations to come. If you're a statue, that's all lost.
The Tree of Harmony remains one of the most powerful sources of magic known to ponydom. And though it has been at the "root" of magic and friendship from the moment it was planted, its ways are mysterious. Almost as if it has a mind of its own.
A tree that grew a castle.
You can all show me what you've learned on tomorrow's test <U+0096> "Friendship's Effect on the Course of Equestrian History".
Remember! Study groups are both fun and effective!
I can't believe you two are going on a friendship quest! This is amazing!
Exactly! This is the first time the map has teamed up the same ponies for a second quest!
I hope so, 'cause it looks like this one might be a little tricky. You're going to the Peaks of Peril.
Only what Rockhoof told me. Back in his day, nopony knew much about the Peaks of Peril except for the legend on this ancient shield. It says a group called the Kirin used to live there, known for their kindness and truth-speaking.
Unfortunately, other creatures also lived there. The Nirik, fearsome beasts of pure fire.
Sorry, Fluttershy. Flanks don't lie.
Woo-hoo-hoo!
Okay, Spike. Now let's try a flip. Remember <U+0096> two flaps, then straight up!
You're doing great, Spike. Now let's see the big finish!
Maybe I should get Rainbow Dash. She's the one who taught me advanced flying techniques.
Spike, I've been thinking about our flying lesson.
I can't believe I overlooked something as simple as feathers. It's no wonder you were having trouble. I wish I had more "dragonish" knowledge to give you. Do you think being raised by ponies has affected you in other ways? Spike?
I'm glad Spike brought you here, Sludge. I understand you made quite the impression in town.
I promise. My friends and I will only do enough to get you back on your claws.
I know you had your reservations, but it's good to see you feeling better.
We try our best, but sometimes I worry that maybe Spike is...
So you crashed in Ponyville on purpose?
Also, the Hippogriffs returned to Mount Aris after we helped them defeat the Storm King.
Uh-uh.
Hey, Spike! How are things going with Sludge?
Oh, I'm sorry. I wish I could help.
Maybe you two can come up with ways to turn up Spike's, uh, dragonishness.
Spike? I just thought I'd check to see if you and Sludge had any luck turning up your dragonishness. It's hard not to feel like somehow I let you down all these years.
Oh! I'm so sorry! I didn't mean to barge in on ya!
Right. Well, I'll just get out of your way.
Oh! Spike! I'm so sorry. My morning is not going well. What is all this? Why'd you leave the castle so early?
Outdoors?
...And that's why I thought we could use the map to<U+0097>
I'm glad you're not spending the night outside again.
It's nice that you have somepony to show you dragon culture. But are you sure that's what Sludge is doing?
Well, taking over your room, making a mess of things...
You never acted like that.
I don't think you're supposed to be any different than who you are.
That's not true! I'm glad Sludge is here. I-I just wish he wasn't such a<U+0097>
Oh. Hi. Where's your father?
Oh, Spike. I'm so sorry.
I have to say, I'm not surprised. There's no way a dragon like that was related to you. But if you still want to search for your real family, I'd understand if you spent more time in the Dragon Lands.
Aww! It's me, right?
And she said yes?
Okay? Cozy, that's amazing! You're like my right-hoof pony! I don't know what I'd do without you.
Exactly. And hopefully my class is learning that on their field trip right now.
Slow down. What happened?
I'm glad you're all okay, but I'm sure it's nothing to worry about, Starlight. Maybe you did your spell wrong. Let's take a look.
I didn't drop that book.
This doesn't make any sense. Magic can't just disappear. Something has to be causing this.
Spike, what's wrong?
Pretty sure I know what it's about.
We experienced it first-hoof.
Has anypony checked on Tirek?
We'll go.
I've finally learned that it's okay to count on your friends for help. Um, you do want to come, right?
Okay. I left you my lesson plan, all my student files, and my annotated syllabus notes. If anything goes wrong, get Celestia.
Maybe I should just close the school and send my students home.
Plus, she'll have you to help her.
See? Nothing to worry about. Tell me there's nothing to worry about.
Have you tried using your tail to shoo them away?
I think we have all the magic we need right here. Not that I don't want to get it back. Heh. Let's go!
This is the only door to Tartarus. The good news is the seal isn't broken, so we know Tirek didn't escape.
Last time I was here, I had to use magic to get in. And according to Star Swirl, all unicorn magic was gone by yesterday's sunset.
The Key of Unfettered Entrance! Where did you find this, Spike?
She really did think of everything.
It can magically open any door. And since artifacts like this haven't lost their power yet...
I guess it only works once.
Star Swirl said that would happen on the second day.
We want answers, Tirek. Magic is disappearing from Equestria.
Where is Equestria's magic going, Tirek? What's making it disappear?
We'll go.
Cozy Glow is behind all of this?!
I knew we shouldn't have left!
We have to get out of here. Her students can't handle Cozy on their own.
I'm afraid not. The most powerful villains and monsters of all time are trapped here. And without our magic, so are we.
Unless... These creatures might be losing their magical powers, but there's still a magic that makes up what they are. Maybe we can borrow some of that.
We need to try everything if we want to get out of here.
Have you even thought about what losing magic would mean?
Exactly. It means you're trapped here. Forever. With us.
Dash and Applejack nearly have Cerberus tired out. If Rarity pitches in, I think they can get him to sit still long enough to try what I have in mind.
All right. Is everypony ready?
That's it! I think it's working!
Come on! I don't know how long I can hold it!
I couldn't have done it without all your help.
No!
Without magic, there's no way we'll get back to the school in time!
It means... we've failed!
But I still don't understand why.
You're the one who doesn't get it, Cozy. Friendship is powerful, but power isn't why you make friends. I'm sorry I couldn't teach you that.
What's going on?
Graduation?
Saving Equestria is nice, but I'm afraid it'll take more than one semester to learn all there is to know about friendship.
If it were easy to learn, we wouldn't need a school.
Everything worked out just fine.
Ommmmm... Ohhhhhhh mmmmy goodness, I can't handle this! Ooh! Nothing is working! I just have to get it together! Just go in there! And ask! This is your Friendship Festival! Everypony's happiness rests in your hooves. Ohhhh!
Oh, thank goodness you're here, Spike! I'm just so nervous about this meeting!
I'm about to ask the three most royal princesses of Equestria for a huge favor! What if they reject me?
Smile?!
Right! Good morning, Princesses. Thank you all for seeing me. I have an idea that I think will make our Friendship Festival the most wonderful celebration Equestria has ever seen!
Yes, she is the... "mane" event! And to make it extra special, I could use your help. Spike?
Songbird Serenade's performance is not scheduled to start until after you begin the sunset. And based on my precise calculation, to get the very best lighting for the stage, Princess Celestia, I was hoping you could make sure the sun stays about 28.1<U+00BA> to the south, and, Princess Luna, if you could raise the moon 62<U+00BA> to the north at the same time, it would reflect the sunlight on the other side and really frame the entire stage perfectly!
But wait! There's more! Cadance, if you could use your crystal magic to create an aurora above the stage, the sun and the moon will shine through it and create a truly amazing light show!
So... that'd be a no?
Okay, just two hundred and eighteen things left to do and we're ready.
Not exactly. They think I can make today perfect without their magic.
But what if I'm not?! What if Songbird Serenade hates the stage?! Or nopony makes a new friend?! And if I fail at the festival, then who am I?!
Ah!
Huh?
Today needs to be perfect, it all comes down to me I don't know if I'm ready For all the things they need me to be I am the Princess of Friendship But that is more than just a crown It's a promise to bring ponies together And never let anypony down
Pinkie!
Hmmm...
Ms. Songbird Serenade? Um, I was just going to check on you. I'm Princess Twilight, and sorry about the mess. I'm usually not so...
Heh heh.
Storm clouds? I ordered perfect weather! Rainbow Dash?!
Is that a... unicorn?
Hi there. Princess of Friendship. Not exactly sure what's going on, but I know we can talk things out.
Luna!
Come on!
The Queen.
Celestia told Luna to find the Queen of the... "Hippos". Luna can't, so I have to.
They're somewhere south, past the Badlands.
I understand you're scared, and nopony else has to go. But I have to find this queen. She might be our only hope.
Hi there! Ooh, I'm sorry. Here. Lemme help you with that.
Okay. We just gotta stick together. Be careful who you talk to. And try to blend in.
Pinkie, you can't just take off! And you don't need to announce to every...
Uh, Spike isn't for sale.
Heh?
I don't know if we should trust him.
Huh?
Guys! We've been looking for the wrong queen! We don't need the Queen of the Hippos! We need the Queen of the Hippogriffs! Part pony, part eagle!
Says here they're on the top of Mount Aris!
Let's go, everypony.
I think we can get there on our own.
I knew it! We gotta get outta here!
Tempest!
Go! Go!
We have to get there! To the docks! Hurry!
Pinkie!
WHAT?!?! Thwa!
Last time we trusted somepony, he tried to sell us!
What?
Then can you deliver us to Mount Aris?
Right. Still going overboard.
Rainbow Dash, this really isn't a good time for a<U+0097>
<U+0097>song.
No no no no no! No!
Ohhh!
Tempest!
Are you kidding me?!?!
We have to get off this ship before they tell Tempest we're here!
I've got this!
Hold this!
Yahoo! Ha ha!
We're home free!
This is it!
But... Celestia... The map. They have to be here.
It's coming from over there!
Pinkie!
Now what?
I didn't make these bubbles!
Hello? We're looking for the Hippogriffs.
Please. The Storm King invaded our land. And we need their help.
Does your mother know where they are?
Hoo-hoo!
We need to find the Hippogriffs. Do you know what happened to them?
But... how?
This is amazing! With this, we could transform everypony at home into something powerful enough to face the Storm King's army!
But...
But we've come all this way. And you can't just hide down here! Trapped forever! There's so much you're missing!
Oh, no. No no. Pinkie's right.
Well, we still need to come up with a plan to get back. A few minutes won't make a huge difference. And if there's anypony who can cram a lifetime of fun into a blink of an eye, it's Pinkie Pie!
So, go ahead and show Skystar the best time ever!
I'm counting on it.
Ow!
No! Please!
It was the only way to save Equestria.
I never would have done it, but this isn't Equestria! We can't just dance around with con artists, make rainbooms in the sky and expect everything to work out! It's not enough! We are not enough!
Well, I'm doing the best I can! It's all on me. I'm the one Tempest wants. I'm the last Princess!
Well, maybe, I would've been better off without friends like you!!!
Pinkie, I...
No no no no no! Noooooo!
Spiiiiiike!!!
Why are you doing this? You're a pony! Just like me.
I'm so sorry you felt so alone.
Friendship didn't fail me. I failed friendship.
Tempest, don't do this. Don't give the Storm King<U+0097>
I'm the Princess of Friendship!
No!
It's... It's the Magic of...
Hold on!
Because this is what friends do.
Pinkie! You all came back! I'm so sorry! I was wrong to<U+0097>
I've gotta get control of it!
No. We've got this. Together.
No!
I can.
Princesses! Oh!
Well, I hope you'll stay. More friends are definitely merrier.
You know, your horn is pretty powerful, just like the pony it belongs to.
No time for rest, that much is clear
Two of these! Three of those! I'm gonna need ten of those! Just in case!
Sure! Just-grabbing-a-few-things-do-I-need-this-no-that's-silly-I-need-eight!
I got way behind grading midterms, and Cadance and Shining Armor are coming here with Flurry Heart for Hearth's Warming Eve, and I haven't started decorating, and I don't know what to get any of you, and<U+0097>!
I was stressed about shopping.
And thanks to all of you, I should be ready to celebrate by then!
Not sure. I'm getting the castle ready for my family first. Then I'll shop.
No! Those aren't really the kind of things my pony likes.
With shopping?
I didn't think of it that way. The present I get for Pinkie Pie should make or break her holiday. I can't just go shopping and hope to find something nice. This needs forethought, planning, research! I'll decoarate later. Knowing Pinkie, she probably already has a perfect idea what to get her pony.
The ideal gift for Pinkie Pie needs to be A <U+0096> unique, B <U+0096> specific to her personality, and C <U+0096> food-based. What is a unique food? Cupcakes? Nah. Cookies? Nope. Pies? Pastries? Pudding? Wait! Puuuuuuuuuuuudding! "After defeating the Windigos, the Earth pony, Pegasi, and unicorn nations prepared the first Hearth's Warming meal together. Chancellor Puddinghead made a pudding so delicious, legends were written about it!" This is it! Unique, totally Pinkie, the most incredible dessert ever!
Where's the recipe?!
The recipe for Chancellor Puddinghead's magical pudding was filed under "Magical Spells", not "Recipes". Only took four hours to figure that out. Let's see. Nutmeg, sugarplums, gingerbread, candy canes... "Warning <U+0096> To avoid untold culinary devastation, each ingredient must be measured with exact care." Book, have you met me?!
But you're early. Your scroll said you were coming tomorrow.
Yesterday. Right. Welcome! Uh, what are you doing?
Nothing!
Uh, I thought it would be more fun if we all decorated it together!
After I finish one quick errand. Just a few ingredients. Nothing to obsess about here! Make yourselves at home. Be right back! Promise!
Shh!
There. Ingredients measured exactly. Now, what were you saying?
Okay, I did get a little stressed about Hearth's Warming this year.
So my friends decided we should do a Hearthswarming Helper and give one pony a present to save time.
What?
I wasn't Twily-nanas! Okay, fine. A little Twily-nanas.
The good news is Pinkie's present is almost done, and it's just friends and family and a calm, quiet Hearth's Warming Eve.
Run!
The pudding is coming!
Magic pudding! What is that?!
They turn into winterzillas after dark!
You like the sparkly?
Just follow it this way!
No-no-no! Not that sparkly! This one!
Chancellor Puddinghead's recipe.
It's your Hearth's Warming present!
It took a lot of research, but I<U+0097>
Right. The recipe needed to be exact. I think Flurry Heart added something while I wasn't looking, but I have no idea what to add to adjust it. A teaspoon of nutmeg, three sugarplums, extra<U+0097>
How do you know the recipe?
Sorry for failing as a Hearthswarming Helper, Pinkie.
It's a riddle, and the answer is "friendship"!
The most magical gift That I can recall It could've been big or small Or even nothing at all
