Is that important?
Did you really call me "the heart of the operation?
Hey, Zack called you short. I think you're just the right height.
Short men have better leverage?
If there was ever anyone who should be in Gitmo . . .
She and Booth are talking to Epps's wife.
The burn v*ctim is Donald Kent, a decorated firefighter.
You know Kent was still alive when he was set on fire? How many v*ctim does that make?
And they aren't just young blonde women anymore.
He's such a monster. He's k*ll from behind bars and new v*ctim keep turning up and now he's out.
I'm not. Look, I have some sick days coming. And I was thinking that since Epps makes me sick, that--
That was low.
How do you deal with the fear?
Oh, my God. That-- That thing is huge. Whoa, wow. That's like, movie huge.
If you do have one, bigger is always better.
Right, yeah. This does seem like a private conversation. Angela leaves.
Oh, my God.
How did this even get in here?! I thought that there was security!
What happened?
Oh, my God. Cam.
You look exhausted.
Okay. This is an x-ray of Caroline's head. These are shards of glass, very fragile.
I think it was a glass capsule filled with a poisonous powder. Epps inserted it after she was dead. Probably up the nose.
Hodgins has some of the shards now. He'll figure out what the poison is.
Let's hope he's not as smart as you. I'm gonna go sit with Cam for awhile.
Are you talking to the evidence?
You know, when this whole thing is over, I am moving to a doorman building, I'm getting an unlisted number and I am hiring a full-time bodyguard named Knuckles.
That's funny coming from a conspiracy theorist. Computer beeping HODGINS: Of course! Methyl bromide. Exiting I'll call the hospital.
Okay, it's still rough, but - this might help.
Oh. Get the HELL outta here.
Wait. The evidence actually adds up to an old, fat man with a white beard, in a custom made Santa suit who smoked a clay pipe and got kicked in the ass by a reindeer?
A - Santa Claus?
What are ya doing?
You know, this is our first Christmas as a couple.
I thought that we could make Christmas decorations for our tree. Is that too corny? It's what my family did when I was little.
And I always thought, you know, when I had my own family that - I'd carry on the tradition.
Isn't that how every family starts?
Sweetie!
Sweetie, could you stop galloping for, like, two seconds?
Call it a favor, okay?
Remember what happened last year?
Yeah, exactly. And it took me weeks to collect all those photocopies. I need you. Friends don't let friends photocopy their butts at company Christmas parties. Hey, there's a Secret Santa.
I've already had an eggnog, if you can't tell. Now, how am I gonna enjoy this party knowing that my best friend in the whole world is in the lab, eyeball to eyeball with... Skeletor?
He's a cartoon villain who looks like a... You know, his name is self explanatory. Would you please just come to this party?
Merry Christmas, Seeley.
Yes. What's wrong with a little Christmas spirit?
How long was it in there?
Oh, no. We are going to the company Christmas party.
It's not last-minute until tomorrow.
Come on.
Okay, you people listen to me. There is a party going on upstairs, okay? A Christmas party. We're going up there. We're gonna talk to some people, we're gonna sing some carols, we're gonna drink some eggnog.
You are going to kiss me under the mistletoe. On the lips.
I might kiss you guys under the mistletoe, too.
Maybe even you. In a festive, non-lesbian manner. But we are going to that party.
The doors seal automatically. Don't worry about it.
Maybe you guys could go get dressed.
Hey, whose fault is this?
Who never should have cut into a bone with a drunken fool in the room?
I'll take that, please.
I know it's against your nature, but I need your help.
To make Christmas.
Yes. We have to decorate and we have to make our own Secret Santa.
It's all so tragic. A cheap wedding ring sewn into his suit, two tickets to Paris. It makes you wonder. Who was the girl? Can you imagine what it was like for her, waiting and wondering, never knowing what happened.
What do you mean?
Good, thank you. At last you decide to take part.
Coffee. Coffee.
Where'd this come from?
Since we're gonna be stuck together for Christmas, we should make the most of it.
We'll decorate this place and exchange handmade gifts.
Last night I spun a little story about two young lovers running off to Paris. But the man never shows up, and the woman is left wondering what happened to him. And I say, "Imagine what that must have been like." And Brennan says, "I don't have to."
Brennan's parents disappeared just before Christmas when she was fifteen.
Alright, we need a way to choose our Secret Santas.
Good idea.
We have to be extremely creative.
Nice. Very festive.
Tidings of joy, gentlemen. Tidings of joy.
Excuse me?
'Pregnant,' in trouble?
You know what? This isn't a very Christmas Eve type story.
I do. Christmas and Easter, anyway.
Sweetie... BRENNAN: What?
A combination of both printing and writing?
A white man and a pregnant black girl in 1958 Oklahoma.
Then why come here?
Okay, brief announcement. You guys might recognize my dad, but I don't really want to talk about it, so, thanks. Okay? That's all.
You like it?
It's not done yet. We can put our presents under there, and we can... You think it's stupid.
My dad and I get together, somewhere quiet, exchange gifts. Just the two of us. Since I was a kid, getting some time alone with my dad was always difficult. What is it with you and gifts, anyway?
I know your parents disappeared just before Christmas.
That must've been strange.
Christmas for his little sister.
Oh my God.
Ivy.
You have to find the girl and tell her what you know.
Don't you see? You can give her the answer that you never got.
I'm sorry, sweetie, but it's true. You have a chance here.
Don't you wish somebody had said that to you?
You found Ivy Gillespie.
Thank you.
She will BRENNAN: Because it's Christmas?
Yes.
Good. Okay, everybody. Stand over here.
Close your eyes.
Open your eyes.
Look at all these gifts!
I wonder what this is.
Oh my God. It's beautiful. What is it?
Thank you.
What did you get?
It's from me.
You're welcome.
That's cool.
Ah, sorry to butt in, Brennan, but I got a name off the serial number. The hearing aid is registered to a Wilhelmina Morgan, out of Mount Charleston, Nevada.
Well, what boxer does that?
And it's actually legal?
I ran thermal imaging on Billie's remaining soft tissue to reconstruct her injuries. This is what she might have looked like after the fight.
Just when I get to a place where I can almost stomach seeing maggots eating intestines. This. How could anybody do this to themselves?
I can work up force and velocity reading for each blow - Zack can help me ID her opponent from the circumference and diameter of the fist.
Okay. The whole 'maggots eating intestines thing' is not nearly as gross to me now.
With a fist size of approximately 90mm. Zack measured.
Hot? Wait a minute, what's hot?
You won't even know it's happening. Okay, Marisol?
We all missed it, Zack.
So when you're dressed, the agent will take you back to the airport. Marisol...Why do you fight?
What do you mean, greedy?
Had you bet on your fight with Billie?
Had Billie bet on herself? Marisol.
Why didn't you tell the police? Or tell us?
What could be so important to you that could let somebody get away with m*rder?
Who's they?
So I spent the night at Todd's. You remember Todd, right? The bass player with the big hands. Big nimble hands.
You're doing a great job. So I wake up this morning and he's sitting there, right? No clothes on, just his bass. Singing to me in this low, low voice. He's creepy.
Sorry, but I'm into alive people. Anyway, Todd has a friend.
Todd, not the friend.
I love it when you two impersonate earthlings.
Is he alive? Because this is an excellent start to a relationship.
Okay, a guy who gets her to stop working? This I have to see.
It's gotta be Michael. Stires, her forensic anthropology professor from Northwestern. They were---
Mm.
Which is my cue to leave.
Here's a sketch of the v*ctim. Her skull was intact so it made it easy to work with.
Then I guess you don't need this.
God, to go from the freedom of dance to being crammed into a refrigerator. I hope she was already dead when they shut the door.
He's hotter than you said.
Any other ex-lovers come knocking on your door today?
Save your dirty talk for the hunky professor.
Sounds very reasonable.
Sure. Have a good dinner tonight.
Maybe the company should use that in their ads.
She's late. She's never late.
I'm happy for her.
You can take the day off. You deserve one day.
I'm gonna let that one go.
The guys wanted to meet him anyway.
Where did you go to dinner last night?
You didn't come back to the lab, did you?
Oh, wow. He cooks too. Can we share him?
You want science? Give me the estimated time of captivity.
Okay, here are your affected areas. Now during an advanced time simulation---
The inflammation would've been very painful and the pain would've increased over time.
Do you really think he can handle your success?
I know, but he's a man and his student, a woman, has surpassed him.
Honey, when you stuck it to him today, he was upset.
I know men. And I know what happens when two people start sleeping together.
Colleagues with benefits.
Don't talk to me about traditional. Okay? I've dated circus people. You and Michael, you have something, and that's okay. That's good, even. Just be honest about it.
Yep. And it is fascinating.
Did you just give Zack and Hodgins a sign of encouragement?
Even though we already had medical records and dental records from which to identify Maggie Schilling, I was also asked to do a sketch based on the architecture of her skull. That's sort of what I do.
Turned out pretty accurate, if I do say so myself.
She was a pretty girl. That's why I drew her smiling.
It--- it just seemed right.
I'm really sorry for what happened to her, and I hope my work helps you.
Guilty on all counts.
So he owes you another dinner, huh?
Sorry.
Yeah. You wanna go out? Grab a drink?
Okay.
So, I've been working on the VIN number.
Yeah, well, I etched it with hydrochloric acid, cupric chloride, and distilled water.
Well, a little happy, a little sad. I was able to restore the last four digits but that's it.
Yada yada.
You got it.
So, after I scanned in all the bones, I remembered Girolamo Cardano.
Yeah, that's the guy. He developed a series of mathematical equations to describe the skeletal system. So, programming the equations into the computer, I was able to reconstruct the skeletal system - the same way a forensic architect could reconstruct a collapsed building.
I sure did. Check this out.
Now, there are marks on the v*ctim's ileum.
And we'd have cause of death.
So, he was stabbed.
No problem. That's the one.
I'm making a 3D rendering which is essentially a virtual mold. Hey, Booth must be cute with his grandfather, huh?
Well cause it makes him feel loved. Like when he actually was a shrimp.
Very good, Brennan. You never had a nickname?
Hey let me see that.
What about a vest?
Hmm. I think I know this color. The computer can match the exact shade of color for us. This is the Palatone color wheel. When a corporation wants to standardize their logo, they have Palatone create a color for them. This particular shade of orange is known as "PriceCo. Blossom Orange" This is the color of the vests the employees wear.
I still don't have nearly enough to give you a face.
Based on the figures that Clark gave me, I was able to partially reconstruct a male fibula.
Yeah, but based on the fibula, he was 5'5".
The center of the palm has some kind of injury. Brennan suspects it's defensive.
No. It's not a kn*fe. See the markings are jagged. No, it doesn't indicate any recognizable w*apon. By filling in the injury I can make a virtual mold of the injured area.
k*ll by a nose? That'd be a first. I'll see if I can match any possible w*apon. Maybe something old.
Well that's how she lost 100 pounds in such a short time.
But mad enough to k*ll?
The finials.
The decorative knobs that go on top of the posts. They're missing.
So the rest of the bed was carved which means the finials must have been carved too. Okay. This is the real estate agents virtual tour of Howard's house. Look. We have finials.
So the other one was probably his wife. (Brennan nods and she matches the nose on that finial to the hand. It's a match.
Howard carved this bed for him and his wife. It was a symbol of their love.
That's so sweet. a...a...and it's horrible too. It's mainly horrible.
Oh he'll still have them. I guarantee it. It's all he has left of her.
It's not a time machine sweetie.
I was hoping it was...like a prank call or something.
Well, I doubt that the Gravedigger would take the time to... Give me the shoe. ...would take the time to lock the front door on his way out.
Oh my god. Okay, alright, we need to call the authorities. We are in way over our heads here.
They called in Hodgins too.
I know you didn't.
You stole evidence?
You don't trust him?
I scanned the new recording... GRAVEDIGGER'S VOICE: Bring the evidence to the SW5 DC Boundary Stone in return for which you will receive GPS coordinates. If you involve law enforcement I will know and Seeley Booth will die. This is my final communication.
...along with the recording that the Gravedigger gave when you and Hodgins were kidnapped. You okay to hear that? Okay.
Now despite the voice scrambler, I was able to extract specific phonemes by running the waveform through a 4AA Transform.
No, the coding was too complicated. But the voice scrambler was triggered to compress at a certain set level. Now in this case, it was set to the volume of the human voice.
Ummm. I'm...still working on that. Sorry. I... We'll get Booth back.
Brennan, I just think that... BRENNAN: Just...work, please.
Okay. Let me try another algorithm. Birds?
Hey guys! There was no voice match but there was a point of origin on the call.
Oh God. Vega's dead. Right, like m*rder, dead?
We have no other choice...
...You spoke to the FBI.
This is weird. Something nearby is broadcasting a video signal.
I might be able to hack into the camera's broadcast frequency.
Listen to me, Brennan. Somebody you love is buried alive. You're allowed to save them no matter how irrational.
Yes you do. So do I. So do all of us Just take my advice and hand over the evidence and get Booth.
Watch your monitor. Tell me if anything changes, okay.
Okay. I'm in. I've locked into the video feed.
No. No. Uh. That's the Gravedigger. It's the vial he's after. God, and its receiver is within a 500 yard radius. He's really close.
At what frequency?
Oh my God. That signal's not coming from the camera. Get back! Run! Run!
What is that? Is that some kind of torture or something?
Hey, they brought in everything from her storage locker.
Hey, uh, Jared, can I see your black file of "spring cleaning" or whatever?
Wait a minute, a ship? Listen to this. Taffet was a volunteer at the aquarium. They were prepping some sort of old Navy ship to be sunk.
They're making some sort of reef.
Brennan, they know where Booth is. Jared is getting a helicopter to take you there. He's on an old Navy ship.
I hate this. I hate it.
All of us together and Brennan alone.
Yeah. Yeah. It's an unfortunate situation. If Brennan understands that we're aren't crazily competitive about it then we'll all come through this with our friendships in tact.
Ms. Julian, I'm not taking the stand.
Look, I'm not gonna tell anybody else what to do here but I'm not testifying.
I've got nothing to say.
I swore to tell the truth and the truth is that I am not saying anything.
No. The witness will not.
Is there any way I could talk you out of that?
I'm taking the Fifth.
Okay. Alright. Well, the- the First Amendment protects freedom of association, right? Which means that it protects friendship. So, I'm taking the First, which is even better than taking the Fifth.
It ain't gonna happen.
Sweetie. This is one of those times when I know what's right and everybody else is confused.
No.
Do you really think that your father is gonna b*at this rap?
Yeah, Brennan, it does. I'm not gonna help send your father to his death.
Look, your old man k*ll a really Big Kahuna at the FBI. You think that those guys aren't g*n for execution?
That's not the point.
Friends don't send friends' fathers to the electric chair.
Well, the principle holds, sweetie.
Yeah. I think you're gonna lose. And I am not gonna help you.
Like, by a hockey stick? During the game maybe?
So, I've looked at, like, a thousand photos of those bl*od patterns at the rink. And tons from the apartment.
Here's a bl*od pattern at the rink. The body was dragged in that direction.
What drops?
These parallel drops aren't from the v*ctim. They're from whoever dragged him across the ice.
Too bad we can't question the fish.
Not eating for three weeks.
I'm not really a big fan of this... barking out orders stuff.
Smells like fish in here.
How did that happen?
Uh, good... good. Taking it slow, you know. Letting things unfold in a... Are you seeing anybody?
I'm glad to hear that.
Definitely a little twinge, yeah, but...despite the twinge, I'm glad you're back in the saddle.
You saw the v*ctim's apartment, right?
I don't think that guy cleaned anything. Not with ammonia. Not with anything.
Heard you might need a face.
It's a mob boss who disappeared six years ago after his daughters dance recital.
Hmmm.
You have a date tonight.
Did you meet him on the website I told you about?
That comes later if it works out. Hi, I'm Angela.
You two know each other?
Only about a billion people date online.
You've already told him, twice. Are you sure you don't want a drink?
You know Booth's pissed that you came here. He had more questions for you at the scene.
Okay I will see if any of them match the v*ctim.
Hey. The v*ctim was Penny Hamilton, nineteen. She was a student at American who disappeared walking back to her dorm. She was about to go to Haiti to work at a medical clinic.
He knew her?
Where is Booth anyway? Thought he wasn't going to let you out of his sight.
So how do you like David? It's not often you can interrogate a guy on a first date.
Hey, Booth is a big strong hot guy who wants to save your life. I mean you actually have a knight in shining FBI standard issued body armor, so cut him some slack.
I don't know if I have enough here to work with.
Let's talk revenge, bloodlust.
I'm using a digital enhancement program to fill in the missing markings made by the b*llet when it passed through the bone. Impressed? I have so many more tricks. There's no ring, Single or Gay?
Brokeback baby, gotta ask.
We'll talk later.
Why is it so cold in here? Holy crap. Look at the size of that thing.
I-I cannot believe she's already applying to colleges.
Don't you mean her application strategies?
Hey. I just sent you the v*ctim's facial reconstruction.
Yeah. Well, I ran it through Missing Persons, and nothing came up.
Oh, we're fine. We're just cleaning up the 3D images of the remains. I think he really likes 3D. If-if by "cargo" you're implying that I already resemble a container ship, let me warn you, you ain't seen nothing yet.
Yeah. Sure. Yeah. Um, you know, I'll tell Cam when I see her.
Me neither. How about if I invite everybody? I'm afraid that you're gonna give it away.
Yeah.
Ok.
Hodgins wants to make a big announcement and tell everybody that I am pregnant.
I know, but Hodgins doesn't know that, because he wanted it to be his surprise. You didn't say anything, did you?
Okay, good. Well, everybody's just gonna have to act surprised, and it they can't pull it off, then they just have to not come. They have to make up an excuse.
Okay, can you do it? Founding Fathers tomorrow night.
Yes, that was...that was...Thank you. Yeah.
Ooh! Bubbles.
Yeah, sometimes I use this thing on myself to check on the baby. Just say hi. Totally unethical, I know.
For what, a costume party?
Oh. Good for her. I love Maine.
Thank you for the personality assessment. Yeah, I went to a good school because I chose to. Nobody made me. You should let Michelle make her own decisions, Cam. I mean, she is almost an adult.
Well, maybe you should talk to Sweets.
He might be able to help you deal with Michelle.
Okay.
Yes, I do. Just go ahead.
Okay, um, well, what we'd like to share with all of your is, um...
Yes.
No. No. They didn't...They didn't know. Did you know?
I didn't tell them honey, they guessed.Didn't you guys guess on your own?
Yes. Yeah, it was the glow, or the vomiting, or something, but the point is, is that we're all together, and you guys are all very happy for us, right?
Heads up, they called Bancroft in from a hearing on the hill.
The supreme honcho of the Jeffersonian.
Okay, I am ready to start the facial reconstruction.
Yeah?
Um . . . Uh . . I'm fine. I'll start after the tissue markers are . . . Let me know.
You won't like it.
I've ID'd the v*ctim.
I told you you wouldn't like it.
Sweetie, I've done hundreds of these reconstructions: the depressed labella, the narrow nasal aperture, the chipped lateral incisor.
The chipped tooth was from a skiing accident when she was sixteen.
Kristen Reardon. She's an intern, we had coffee a couple of times. She didn't want to be a scientist. She wanted to go into design. She was jut here to make her father happy. She was young and eager and keen and . . . she was just really, really young.
Yeah, he used to work here.
Look, I know that we can't say anything until you do the tissue markers and we go through channels, but, I'm telling you, I know this is Kristen.
You wanna know something else? She was seeing somebody who worked here.
Well, Booth will think so. Especially since it was a married man.
No, just that they had had their first kiss at the opening of that Egyptian exhibit and that it had been hot and heavy ever since.
No, I'm-I'm sorry. I'm just really freaked out by this one.
Well, and the k*ll! I mean, look around! Do you like thinking that somebody we see every day could've thrown Kristen down the incinerator?
I don't believe it.
The serial k*ll eats human flesh, Kyle Aldrige is a vegetarian.
Kyle Aldrige is not a cannibal.
The middle east is Aldrige's area of study.
I guess. He's kind of .
We had drinks. I don't sleep with married men.
You know, Jack, you are actually a better candidate to be Gormogon than Kyle Aldrige.
You're brilliant, paranoid about conspiracies, I say that lovingly, with limitless resources.
Great. Now, if I could only get the other thousand or so people who work here to convince me, maybe I could get to sleep tonight.
What's in your file?
Wait, wait, the w*apon is an artifact?
Well, there is one item. An eight hundred year old copper spear tip. The authentication department checked it out two weeks ago to Dr. Kyle Aldrige in the middle eastern department.
The Gormogon vault.
I might be able to help with that.
I worked up a 3-D model of Kristen's m*rder and I noticed something. This is Kristen. The angle of attack was exactly sixty-seven degrees.
Which is weird.
And incredibly strong; six foot eight and three hundred pounds.
And there's no evidence on the surface suggesting that a projectile exited Kristen's body and struck the table, but . . .
Visualize a sharp object on the table at a fixed sixty-seven degree angle.j ZACK: The object impales Kristen through the posterior thorax . . .
If you call Aldrige by his name, you really should call the girl by her name.
Why didn't he just confess during Dr. Brennan's interrogation?
Why me?
I feel like I was just threatened.
I, um, I got something from the videotape.
I cleaned the section of the tape with an isopropyl alcohol solution and fed whatever digital information I could salvage into a restoration program. I didn't get much-maybe I got too much.
Are you trying to k*ll me?
It helps muffle the screams so I don't pass out every few seconds.
Wait. We have to go through all the video again?
I just know what's going to happen here, okay? This is where they freak out because they hear the witch.
Wait. There. Did you see that?
So?
Yeah.
Almost done with her face.
I found someone else in the woods.
At least, I think it's a person.
Because I want him here. Okay. Look. I ran it through a mass-recognition program That's Graham. And that is our mystery guest
No. Different height and weight. This person is about six-one. As you can see, that includes a head.
Exactly. Isn't that only used by professional firefighters?
He's also about six-foot-one, right? And, he has a head.
The FBI needs me to finish cataloging the restored footage.
You've been great today, Hodgins.
Yeah, I was working on it before. I just finished rendering.
Um, uh. Could, could be a reflection.
Yeah. Uh, moonlight sounds right. Can I stay at your place tonight?
Hey. Have you seen Brennan?
Well I'm sort of hoping that she needed me.
What about you? You need anything?
Right. Okay.
Did Hodgins tell everybody?
Well, it won't be so romantic when I divorce him.
No. No, I'm annoyed. I know about this hypnotism thing. I was a magician's assistant at a little gypsy carnival in Brazil.
Ugh, Mysterio was really cute, and I was younger then, and... the whole being sawed in half thing was actually kinda hot.
Right. Well this guy could rub an alligator's stomach so I could stick my head inside its mouth? But every time he hypnotised people? It was always a scam.
Really?
You read that?
Wow...Why?
Was this little episode in the Stanford study?
. Okay. Why am I not feeling better about this?
I guess you're right. I've done crazier stuff than this!
What can happen, right?
Coffee?
You first.
Of course you do. I talked to Dr. Jasper, that hypnotist.
She asked me to bring in photos. But all I could find are these.
Which is why I'm looking for the wedding photo.
Well, when I got off the phone with Dr. Jasper, I remembered that somebody snapped a Polaroid of me right after I said "I do." And I stuck it in a book as a bookmark, but I, I can't find it. You know, I really hate going through the story of marrying a guy. I didn't even know his name. People are looking at me like I'm nuts.
Thanks a lot.
I'm supposed to take advice from a guy who's walking around with honeydew melons?
I'm not going under. I'm being hypnotised.
Is somebody there? Hodgins?
Ah. Sweetie. It'll break the spell.
No. It never took.
Cause that doctor said that I wasn't relaxed enough. I mean, can you believe that? I mean, how would she know if I'm relaxed or not?
Oh, don't say that... Really? I'm going back there at six. She says that if my pulse rate is still above sixty, that she's gonna push me off 'til next week.
What, you think I don't want to be hypnotised?
Ah. You think I'm afraid of disturbing old memories. You think that somehow I- I like this idea of Berimbau as some sort of untouchable fantasy figure. Hmm? That somehow finding his real name will just bring him down to Earth and make this whole... meshugaas banal and uninteresting.
I'll be ready next time. Okay? You'll see. Could you excuse me? Sweetie?
Hey! Shut that door behind you.
How am I doing? Because the pressure of having to have a low pulse could be driving my pulse up, and I in no way want to be penalised for that.
I did some deep breathing. You're not gonna make me cluck like a chicken, are you? Sorry.
b*mb away!
I'm pretty sure I'm on the Rialto Bridge in Venice.
No. There's not.
I see the door.
I'm going to pull it open.
Did it work?
I opened the door... and I saw a wasp.
No, a-a-a- big, flying, stinging insect.
No, it- no, it was the size of a human being! And it was a very large human being.
Nothing.
I'm sorry. I have no idea.
This is my fault?
Yeah. And next time I'll open the door to- to what? A giant snake? I don't think so, Doc.
Hey.
I love dream theory.
No, Jack.
I was reading it in Fiji. I mean, between all the snorkelling and the...
Let's go with that.
Look inside.
Mm-hmm.
Flip the picture.
Grayson Barasa. Once I say his first name, the rest of it just flows out. Grayson Barasa.
I really, really do.
I want a divorce. And then I want a wedding.
Ooph. It is morning, yeah?
Yes.
Well, what he doesn't know doesn't hurt him, right? Okay, so here is an additive stereolithograph that I borrowed for archaeology. You need a skeleton, and I'm gonna make a reasonable facsimile.
Their purpose is to cure micro thin layers of liquid resin into hard plastic. The stacking of these two dimensional layers will create a three dimensional object.
Which you'll use to grow a plastic replica of the v*ctim's skeleton.
That's for you and Arastoo to find out. While I take a well deserved nap.
Thank you.
Right. But can we get anything useful from it?
Okay. Why don't you just flip it over so we can get a better look?
Hey, this was kinda fun.
This is the construction site before the concrete was poured. This is rebar. No over that is a layer of plastic sheeting. It appears that the v*ctim was pushed or fell from this spot.
Just shy of three meters. And he was impaled here.
Yeah, the body was yanked off the rebar and dragged over there. The plastic sheeting was sliced and the body was shoved underneath.
Well, the construction company went bust and the whole area was fenced off for several months. And then another company Came in and bought the project and poured the foundation. Now the concrete lifted the skull through the slit in the plastic and the rest of the bones dissolved from Hodgins fungus. This guy was impaled. So, how did nobody notice the bl*od for four months?
Yeah, let me show you.
That's a nick on his spine.
Well, it could have been inflicted before he fell on the rebar.
Sweetie, you do mean pretend to be a corpse, right? Because the way you're holding that kn*fe, you're looking a little slasher-y.
Right. She supported her weight with her left hand. So she left a full palm print on the plastic.
Well, his looks like a popcorn machine.
It worked.
That is not the maintenance guy from the park's hand print.
Or a woman.
Hey, you have a skull for a facial reconstruction?
Oh, great. Is this all I have to work with? I always hated puzzles.
Oh. My. God.
Hey, you're a government bureaucrat, babe.
Well. This is the skull. I'm good, but I'm not that good.
Okay. If anybody needs me, I'm gonna go throw up, then do some paper work.
He's Dr. Jack Hodgins. Angela. Montenegro. I do facial reconstructions - and him.
Hm
Oh, analyzing the iconography for the Widow's Son case until somebody needs me for the b*mb v*ctim.
Oh, totally hot.
The b*mb from the b*mb Squad. She's totally hot.
Look, Jack. I really don't care what's going on in your pants as long as it stays in your pants.
Okay, save it. What have you got?
There's writing on them.
Well, I'll give it a try.
Go.
This tattoo appears to have been crudely executed.
And...here we go.
There is a design in the center that I can't quite get.
Yeah. Oh my God. It is a fist.
NLA?
And our v*ctim? It's the same woman.
I'm creating a trajectory analysis factoring in both the hand and the shoulder. These are photos from the crime scene, 30 years ago.
The original FBI photos were crude. Based on finger prints and scuff marks on the floor. It was assumed that June stood guard while Neal emptied the safe.
Exactly. Neal aims at Office Valenti but June steps between them, raises her hand to stop Neal, but he fires.
Sounds like a bad ex-boyfriend.
Where's the b*mb from the b*mb squad?
What about the breasts?
Well, that b*rned paper? Is a letter that she wrote. So I'm using the spectral comparator to locate the ink particles.
The, uh, computer is rendering the content now, so. You?
oh.
That's nice work, Hodgins. You know, my computer, is gonna be rendering for a while. Wanna go to the Medieval storage room?
Oh.
The letter has finished rendering. It's not addressed to Watkins.
Is that skull ready for me yet?
Or, you could do that for me, because I will never, ever do that.
What was he, crash test dummy?
Falling off a bicycle.
Hey! I did a rendering of our v*ctim's face. We're checking him against any reports of missing persons.
Tripp Goddard?
Yeah, I don't appreciate the "girls" comment.
That would've been the Super Grand Prix, out in Virginia. Tripp won in the final two laps after some kind of accident took out the frontrunner. Girls, huh?
Could it be both?
What?
You two have been spending way too much time together.
So a lot.
Which is a lot.
All right; now I'm back in a physics class I want to ditch.
Boys.
Maybe it was decorative.
Oh, come on! Choke? Didn't anybody play softball or baseball? Okay. It's a choke-up.
Right, like a girl. Now, when I batted, I always had to choke up.And of course, I kicked ass.
Apparently Cam is autopsying a senator.
They have a past.
Cam and Booth. Look how she touches his arm when he laughs.
No, no. You touch me. It's a big difference.
At 6 foot 7, it makes sense.
Wait, Warren Lynch as in Lynchpin International, Warren Lynch?
Man, I love Paula Davis. She could have been President.
You didn't actually want the job, did you?
Well, Goodman won't explain his decision.
Okay, well I think it's because you are very task-oriented.
Oh, no. No! ...well, yeah. Yeah, a little. Like, when's my birthday?
That's one of a gajillion examples.
What does explain it?
Hey, Zack provided a skull, and this is the face that goes with it.
I'll check 'em for tampering.
No. This was the man behind the wheel.
Well somebody digitized Lynch's dental records and then re-filmed them utilizing authentic alpha-numeric bar codes.
Thank you.
After Zack nagged me a hundred times... ZACK: It's important for us to show how the v*ctim's shoulder and elbow were dislocated.
I recreated the most likely sequence.
Corpses don't usually do that.
Yeah, most likely by two people.
They had a train to meet.
Yeah, it was relatively easy to get the license plate numbers from these two cars.
There was another car.
Rich guys keep their cars shiny.
It's an Navigator. But get this. I don't know if that's any use to you.
'Cause if they do, we could both get fired. By your old sweetheart.
Think? What do you mean, think?
He k*ll three people.
Not Zack.
Hey. Brennan said she found a skull, so...I can give you a face.
Brennan said this was a teenager, right?
These clothing scraps look hand-stitched. Like his mom made them. That makes it sadder somehow.
Hello!
This is about Michelle, isn't it? Is she having sex?
I bet you were an early starter, weren't you, Clark? A prodigy, maybe?
Yeah.
Okay, the good news is that this span of track only uses southbound trains, which means the body most likely came from the north.
Well, we're still missing a lot of body parts. And north of this section, there are multiple switch points where the tracks branch out into dozens of other lines. Clark's looking at a lot of hot hours under the sun.
Hey. What's goin' on with Michelle?
Oh, I met him. He's a hottie.
Perry. Michelle's boyfriend.
Studly.
Why do you think he ispressuring her? Women want sex just as much as men.
Well, I did, too, at 16 and I also had Brian. All you can do is tell her to respect herself and use protection.
Hmm. Well, that eliminates the need for me to search for passenger-only trains. Which means I can focus on which lines used coal cars. Hey, listen, Cam, every teenager goes through this. Think about what you went through.
Okay, I'll see if I can locate any distinctive architectural markers outside the windows.
These are some talented kids.
These buildings have Queen Anne detail like a corbeled cornice. Most of the older neighborhoods have these. I'm going to need more.
: He's adorable.
Did you hear that? That noise in the background? Maybe we don't need architectural markers.
Architecturally, these buildings could be in one of six neighborhoods. But this building here is the only one that's right next to the train track. I'll triangulate the structures outside the windows and bingo, there's the apartment building.
It's so sad.
We may have cause of death. Karen Lin's apartment is on the fourth floor of the building. Underneath the balcony in the alley is a Dumpster.
Wait, how much force would it take to do something like that?
Hey, the keyboard lid could've exerted that much force. It could've happened when he was practicing at the conservatory.
Which means that she had motive to try to sabotage his audition. She accidentally injures him, hoping that he'll slink back to Amish Country.
Yep. Lazebnik was a fugitive.
Hodgins, you know Booth is bigger than you, right?
George Clooney naked on a white sandy beach. But, I can give you faces after the skulls are reconstructed.
Why didn't he just divorce her?
So this is marriage's fault?
Don't say it like that. I date.
We make our lives out of chaos and hope and love. Someday you'll meet somebody.
Talk about a fantasy.
This. I hate my job.
Sort of like a real creepy party game.
What?
Really?
Oh, god. Uh-uh-. 5'8". One hundred and hundred... BRENNAN: What?
135. It's all muscle.
Well then why did Kyle run?
She was k*ll right here.
They didn't. They left her in New Jersey in the Rancocas Creek. She made it to the bay on her own.
Basically. Two days after Carlie disappeared there were thunderstorms in central New Jersey. Heavy, heavy rains. The body must have been flushed down the Rancocas and into the Delaware River. Then, she slowly made her way down the Delaware and into the bay.
You said the little guy was only two weeks old.
Sure.
Yeah. Since someone this young is still being formed the, uh, features are generalized.
That's why I ran the reconstruction though an aging matrix. It posits the most likely growth pattern the skull would follow. Now as it ages, the features become more distinct. By the time he's about 10, he shows very definite genetic characteristics.
Where did this come from?
They let you borrow it?
Tell me you're kidding.
Wendell, you cannot just take a-
Oh-ho-ho, he's good.
Right. Dead bride wearing a strapless bra, plus a straight pin. She must have had a bridal gown fitting right before she died.
This is so far out of my job description, it's not even funny.
Most of the boxes don't have any identifiable markings, but the surface scratches on this one look like they may be handwriting.
Really?
Poor Sweets. He loves her.
Exactly.
If Sweets is in love with Daisy, and she's cheating on him, somewhere inside he knows. And if he doesn't, then it's because he doesn't want to. Will you hand me that lemon juice?
Good. A person's love life-
You just want to tell him, don't you?
Come on, sweetie, be kind.
Look, it looks like we can read the writing on the box. Okay, "Champagne Lounge, 271 Beloit Avenue, Washington, DC."
Yeah, I've heard of that place, the Champagne Lounge. A lot of couples use the alley for a quickie. Okay, well, it looks like it's just the battery.
You just can't let it go, can you? All right, this ought to do it. All fixed.
Oh, my God, she's getting a call. What-what... what do you want me to do?
Oh, my God. It's Hodgins.
You're using a dating service?
I get it, Jack.
Yeah.
I don't see anything, guys.
Okay, well, I need to enhance the details. I can shower the image with various wavelengths of light. Next, I apply the filter software. Finally I blacken the blacks, maximize contrast, and sharpen the focus.
That's a tire tread.
Wendell's data suggests that she was struck by an SUV.
You didn't find any incised wounds with glass or paint, did you?
I'm just confirming that the v*ctim didn't wrap around the hood, which means that her center of gravity thrust her backward, something like this.
Hey, uh, whatever happened to your online dating thing?
Okay, ladies, It's ready.
In newer model SUVs, the grill protrudes almost as far as the bumper. It's like being hit by a battering ram.
No, I'm not finished. Assuming this was done on purpose, the driver backed up to see where his v*ctim had landed. And then, he g*n it.
These are the guys that Meriel met on that "Date or Hate?" We're looking for Owen Smith. Here he is, Owen Smith. Hmm, he looks weird.
I know, that's what's weird. He doesn't look real, right? Seems too young for plastic surgery, but these wide flaring cheekbones - there's no way that they could coexist with this nasal bridge.
I don't know...
Okay, Owen is a composite of these four other dates. Look, he has Graham Mou's chin, Mel Jensen's eyes, Frank Henley's mouth, and Mickey Jasper's nose and cheekbones.
I'm not sure if I can wait for tonight.
You know, I have a key to the Egyptian storage room.
Come on, are you really as virtuous as you seem?
Wow, Mr. Bray.
I thought we were being subtle.
You have something on your mind?
You're worried about Cam knowing?
Listen, Wendell, Hodgins and I are in the past.
Do you want me to tell Hodgins?
A man-to-man, look-him-in-the-eye kind of thing?
Okay, let's do it your way.
You're the worst. Both. Consider this a do-over.
Hey. I finished the facial reconstruction off the MRI. I'm emailing it now. Sorry - it is not an alien.
Uh, a bit. There might be still a few corrupted frames.
Yeah, but I think it's gonna play.
Oh, my god, is that what I think it is? And are those...
No, it isn't. This was verified by the scanning software at a pixel level
So, assuming that the figures in the Hazmat suits are of average height, then the structure here must be about four to five meters tall.
Uh, the light seems to be emitting from a spilled liquid.
Well, look, I'm gonna keep working on this footage, but you guys have to admit that this makes the hairs on your arm stand on end, right?
So, I took the information that you gave me, and it looks as through the projectiles first impacted next to the juncture between the frontal and parietal bones.
Yeah, that seems to make the most sense.
Well, what about, like, slow moving projectiles? Maybe a paintball g*n?
Oh. To prove we're all fine?
We know, Hodgins.
Um, I'm not really okay with being kissed when it's not about me.
I am fine, fine.
So the footage was pretty rough as you saw, so I ran an application to counteract the motion of the camera with opposite movement. Then I translated each pixel of the infrared spectrum into a pixel of the visible color spectrum.
Yeah, but what about the alien things?
You know, I think I liked this all better when it was aliens.
Yeah, it's true. It doesn't look like anybody's armed. Now, I was able to salvage some of the audio track.
Yeah, I know, but I scrubbed the background and separated the different frequencies, and then I amplified the resulting file.
Yeah, I know. We're gonna have to get a translator.
Yeah.
You can tell that?
So you think that...
That's too bad.
Mmm.
Call that thing by my name one more time. I dare you.
Boys.
So, do you feel better?
You know, it's over between Hodgins and me. I mean, you believe that now, right?
I am telling you, mister, it's not.
Hey, Sweetie, Booth is in your office. He's got some people with him.
Just when I thought it couldn't get worse.
Japanese animation.
So any guesses?
No, not the case. The doctor. Dude or dudette?
Hey. So, I googled Tanaka. 300 hits, all Japanese, none with a personal pronoun.
Him.
You know, I think you're probably right. We should just ask him.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean, it doesn't really matter what he is.
Hey, I did a little research on Strutt Photography.
No! Really?
Yeah, tell me about it. All right, check out Strutt Photography's website. Now, there's a link to additional services, which requires permission and a password. I traced the IP address and I found the FTP site that contains all the uploads. Then I bypassed the password protection by hacking into the server where his web address is registered.
Look what Mr. Strutt's been hiding.
Long lens, foreground objects, probably taken without the subject's consent.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, excuse me. Hi. I heard that.
So, how are you holding up?
Listen, your sister wasn't a prostitute. Her roommate was.
What was?
Right. And she was wearing her roommate Nozomi's mask.
And she disposes of it so that no one will think that she k*ll Sachi.
We got the general shape from Dr. Tanaka's cast, but we still need to fill in the details.
Well, it's too early to say.
All right, so, there goes the katana sword.
Okay, anything else?
Ooh, that's good.
Wait a minute. James Sok, the owner of Elegant Escorts, doesn't he live on a boat?
Oh, this is ridiculous. Hey, Haru. It was great working with you. I hope to see you again soon.
Okay, then. Have a great trip back.
Okay.
It moved. He's a guy.
Yeah.
I beg your pardon?
Wait a minute. Why are you asking me?
Yeah, well, what makes Cam crazy?
And...
Michelle.
Hey, uh, this is weird, Booth.
This is the first time I have ever been as paranoid as Hodgins.
Well, it could be, like, D.B. Cooper, that hijacker. But we're not supposed to conjecture about the identity of the v*ctim.
Well, he does have a good brow line and nice, strong jaw. I mean, whoever he was, he was good-looking.
Don't you think they're going to know what I'm doing?
Awkward. Awkward. Very awkward.
About Michelle...
About-about the pregnancy test?
It's my pregnancy test. I'm - I'm sorry, Cam. I would have told you sooner but Hodgins was in the room, and...
It's okay.
Um, I'm a - I'm a bit in shock.
No. No, no. Only you and I know and, I mean, really, shouldn't Wendell be the first to know? But I figured that you-you need to know.
Yeah.
So, Wendell should be the first to know but you should be the second and since I told Cam, I-I should tell you.
I don't know. I mean, it's not the right time. It's not the right guy.
No, I didn't mean that. I mean...a baby. I mean, you're linked to that person for the rest of your life. Like, way more than if you're married. I mean, you're linked through another human being. A soul.
Well, I might not even keep it.
It's totally nondescript, as you can see.
I requested this animation from the Justice Department.
Right. So his head went back and to the left.
Yeah, I hate to admit this, Booth, but Hodgins is making a pretty good point.
Hey, uh, I'll have Brennan's analysis of the entry angles up in one second.
Yeah?
I don't know that yet.
He's a great guy.
Geez. Regular Nostradamus there, huh, Hodgins? Predicting the future?
What?
Hey. What is this?
Uh, well, thank you for this.
Oh. My. God.
Yeah, but the v*ctim turned out not to be Kennedy.
Well, you do realize that all these tests? Everybody failed.
I'm not pregnant. It was a false positive.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah, but, um, I-I wanna...I want to thank you for...
I'll never forget it.
Hey, you listened to Hodgins?
It's a department of defense agency. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. Hodgins say they're into some pretty weird stuff. Like creating super-soliders who don't need sleep and can k*ll with their laser beam eyes.
There's no photograph in here.
Okay. Before you freaked out, you should know that I double and triple check the measurements and indicators.
Half man, half chicken?
5 months and 14 days, I have been celibate.
Thank you. Sweets was right. Taking sex out of that equation made me relate to people in a totally different way.
The point is, that my six months is almost up. So..
No what?
I-Iwasn't asking! In fact, you should know that I'm considering a year.
I wasn't asking, Jack. I was just-keeping you in the loop.
Okay.
Nearly 10 billion chickens are hatched annually. Most in places like this.
Yeah, each chicken is given a less than half foot space. And look at this part, the little baby chicks get their beaks cut off.
Supposedly to keep them from fighting.
The stress of being jammed together, it gets crazy.
Yeah. I am. Aren't you?
Yeah, but they can feel. I mean you can see that they can. And you know what else? If it turns out there was a chicken revolution and they off this guy, I am with them.
Yeah. I guess.
Fine. I was able to extract the metadata that was embedded in the original video file. Time and date the video was taken and aperture make and model of the camera including the serial number.
Yeah. The owner sent in the manufacturer's warranty which included the serial number.
Hey. What about pigs? Pigs are sension.
Pigs make bacon. Not only are they sension, they're smarter than dogs.
Yeah, for health reasons. Listen, Brennan. I wanna save this little piglet.
Yeah. And that would be $1500. Are you in?
Yeah, but look at his face. How can you resist this face?
This is not a symbol, this is a face. It worries me that you can look into these eyes and be so cold.
How are we friends? How is it possible? We have nothing in common.
Hey.
No- no. I'm here for a donation. She told you about our fight?
It's gonna cost $1500 to save this piglet. How much are you in for?
I just can't stop thinking about this little piglet.
What does that have to do with anything?
Wait a minute, inappropriate my ass. Can I ask, what is wrong with everyone here?
Okay. Alright, so if I have sex, will you donate to save my pig?
You can keep this. I have multiples.
Hey. So I need $1500.
I need to save this pig.
Yeah.
Look at his face.
The human eye can also receive colors between wavelengths of 400 and 750 nanometers.
So we run the image through the spectroscope, then now we can detect the color difference that is not visible to the human eye.
Right, then we assigned all post mortem bruising with one distinct color, and peri mortem with another. Injuries sustained before death will appear red and after death, black.
What?
Oh you mean work.
Work. I agree, it's work. Can we move on?
Who?
Oh, oh, I know.
Wait a minute, the video.
So, your high school is famous, Sweetie. The earliest reported mention of The Butcher of Burtonsville was in 1956. Young people were warned to aviod secluded locations at night, as there was a lunatic who k*ll and dismembered
Big mouth what?
Oh. Oh.
No. I was not pregnant.
Very briefly, Wendell.
Yes. Yes, of course. Do you think that we could talk about this later and - and maybe not here?
By morning, I knew I wasn't pregnant so I- I saw no reason to bring it up.
Maybe I should have told you. I don't know. I - I just thought it was gonna bring up a bunch of questions that we weren't ready for.
What do you mean?
Well, yeah. I know it is.
You would?
I'm sorry, Wendell. I should have told you.
Hey, you said the skulls ready for me?
Hey, sweetie. Wow, that is a crappy motel room.
Okay. I'm gonna drive by that one. Uh, how's the reunion?
So you're pressed for an ID. I'll try to be quick with a facial reconstruction.
Is there a problem?
Well, how do you know that?
Wendell was so sweet, ya know. He had this stiff upper lip and - and he kept telling me that he'd do the right thing. And his jaw was all tightened and manly.
He's probably the best guy I've ever met. I mean, he's good hearted and he's honest.
'Cause when Hodgins thought I was pregnant he said "I'm your guy". Wendell talked about bearing the consequences and doing the right thing.
That's not very poetic.
Hodgins wanted to be with me and the baby, which I guess means that he's less likely, than Wendell, to go off and start a w*r, right?
I think Brennan was the normal one.
Look at her.
Uh, 48 degrees.
It's pretty close. This ice carving tool could definitely be the m*rder w*apon.
Yes.
I'm not a duty, Wendell. You didn't do anything wrong. In - in fact, it's the opposite. You're the best. But you can't tell me that in the back of your heart you aren't thinking that another upcoming duty might be to let me down as gently as you can.
I really like you too. You're sexy and smart and good. You're like "saint" good.
Hey. Do not knock that. It's a very rare and hot combo. You have somebody out there who isn't a duty.
So the star points have a 52 degree taper.
Yeah, and the edging shows that the stars were cut by the same saw that was used to dismember the body.
Well, maybe there were multiple stars.
Okay, well this is the drying rack. Uh, this is where they placed the stars when the varnish was drying. So let's see if the points line up.
Well, unless somebody shoved her onto them.
Hey.
Did, um..did Wendell tell you? Of course he did, you're friends.
Yeah. Yes, I am. As you know, I have some experience in this area. And, I'd like to know if Wendell's alright?
Well, I don't want to be the kind of person who leaves this string of good-hearted guys behind her, ya know?
I don't know about that. I mean, I'm pretty sure he was born that way.
And how can you be sure?
I am so never going to my high school reunion, ever.
So, she's hot?
No, no, no. You were a couple. You just weren't having sex. Were you jealous.
OK that's gross.
You are not playing with our children without supervision.
Ah, which gives us an accurate time of death.
Kind of. A little. Yeah.
No. The only place I'm not nauseous is here, which is weird because this place always used to make me sick before.
Babymoon?
Well we should go back to Paris.
Nice. Nice.
Hmm.
Hmm. Sort of. The woman is Hilary Fuller, I got a match off the DMV which led to the missing persons report filed by her boss but the guys skulls was a little bit harder.
The v*ctim's skull was funky so this was the best I could do.
She is hot.
No. Attractive hot. Sexy hot.
So, Booth seems happy with her right?
Like me?
Yeah, well, love sort of decided that for me. Like Cam, she never expected to be a parent.
Well, how's that honey?
Don't drool Hodgins.
Keep going. Don't stop.
So I input put all the injuries and breaks that were found on both the v*ctim.
Now here are the injuries on her back and I found some photographs of the area surrounding the cave, I used topographical overlay software to find the rocks that would match their injuries. So this section of the rocks here is the section that matches their injuries, its about 250ft from the cave.
Oh, my God.
Oh, no, sure. I get the situation here. You're with me, Parker.
Well, I agree that does sound awesome, but I have face paints that your dad will never be able to get off, no matter how hard he scrubs. They're basically tattoos.
You're with me, Baby Booth.
Oh, so he likes her. Well, that's good.
No, I'm on a celibacy kick. It's been five months and nine days, which in celibacy time is 400 years.
It's, um... I don't have a boyfriend, no.
I don't think he has a boyfriend either.
Why?
That's very succinctly put.
Don't think I haven't considered that, but I'm sort of on the sidelines for now. But thank you for thinking of me. Okay. Ready?
Done.
I'm good. .
Well, we discussed your lack of sex life.
Well, he knows that daddy ain't getting any, and he's concerned. He thinks you need a girlfriend... to have sex.
Well, his exact words were, "To sex up." I think you need to talk to him honestly about your love life.
See? This is exactly how it started with me. .
Oh, seriously. That's your big worry right now?
Arastoo must be finished looking at the mini-fractures in that area, right? Where is he? .
Who are you?
Oh, no. Definitely not.
Does Brennan know about this?
You are so gonna to pay for this.
So, a weak blow that was delivered when Kurt was already on the ground?
Well, what does that have to do with it?
This mark here could be congruent with a golf club. . It's curved and metallic. I could run up an image.
Brennan asked me and Arastoo to look for possible m*rder w*apon. We did find the lube - it's enough to make the whole neighborhood smile. And there's this. .
You're gonna tell me to stop looking through all of this stuff now, aren't you?
Spoilsport. Finding likely m*rder w*apon way too fast. .
Okay, let's have it.
Well, "Fight and slay the unbeliever."
Oh, you just got smote.
Hey, guys? Yeah? Uh, Hodgins noticed that there's a path all the way around the house.
Well, I don't want to think about what she's after.
Oh, God. D-don't say it.
You know what I think? I think Cam sent us both to the crime scene because of the tension between us.
Yeah, at first I thought it was because I'm suddenly--I don't know--available again. And then I thought maybe it was because you think that I treated Wendell badly.
I'm not sure how I feel about you two discussing me.
Okay, that's fine. I can live with that.
Yeah, this symbol is very creepy on this chimney.
See?
Oh, the Prius helps you stay in your lane. That's kind of cool.
I didn't even see him there. That's pretty sneaky. Pull over. I'll pour on the charm.
Oh.
Hi, Sheriff. Listen, um, I really do like a man in uniform who loves his job. So, uh, neither one of us has had anything to drink. No.
He was kidding. He's just being an idiot.
If you know that, then why did you taunt the guy with the g*n?
No. Praying that you do, though.
Okay, here he comes. Listen, Hodgins, be nice, or I will cause you great pain.
For what?
Oh. Yeah, well, that, I didn't speed.
Okay... all right, listen. I will appear, and Hodgins will... surrender, as soon as we get back, okay? Word of honor.
Don't you dare.
Oh, oh, it's ringing.
Okay.
Yeah, hi.
We're in Berryville.
Maryland--we're... in jail.
Well, it goes a little like this: uh, Hodgins got pulled over for driving like an old lady. And then we...
Oh, you have a warrant, too, Mr. Clean.
We're stuck here until the judge shows up to set our bail, and who knows when that's going to be.
Yes!
This is the hardest bench that I have ever sat on in my life.
My shoulders are k*ll me.
Why?
Okay. Only because I hurt.
Oh... yeah. Ohh, oh, yes.
Yes, down, down. A little lower. Lower. Oh, yeah, yeah. Oh, thank you, God. Oh...
Oh, yes. Harder, right there. Right there. Right there, oh...
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah...
Oh, uh...
No, no, no, no, you're kidding, right?
Oh, my God.
Cam!
Cam?
Yeah, for now.
Oh, yes!
Only 17.
Yeah, I know. God. I keep thinking about that, that crappy cabin that we stayed in, in the mountains. Do you remember that? 30 degrees, there was no heat.
That was a good weekend, though.
Yeah.
Yeah, we're thinking of redoing the kitchen.
Is that a bug in there?
There's plenty of room in here, Sheriff, if you want to join us.
Hmm. So, if we remove the DNA, we could re-create dinosaurs, right?
What's with the hair?
Uh, well, I mean, we'd-we'd like to get out of here, if that's what you mean.
Okay, is this whole witchy thing about to get creepier?
Ugh...
Really? You sure? You're down 31 cents.
Yes! 32.
Do you ever wonder what happened to us? On the day we broke up?
Me, too.
And you said, "Hey, you're the one who's leaving."
And I left.
Right. Well, I wish I hadn't.
Yeah, what was up with that?
Hmm. You talk to Sweets?
Yeah. It was like we were both playing chicken, and then we... we both swerved.
At the speed of light.
Oh, thank you.
Um, there's, um, there's one small problem.
Oh, no. That's not it. It's, um... that's not my real name.
Yeah, uh... yeah. Well, my dad is, um, he's sort of unique, and, well, he's Texan, and, uh... other things, so... do you mind if I just, if I whisper it to you?
Stanley... we're gonna live together and we're gonna love together and we're gonna have so much fun, and a little pain, and we're gonna live a life that's gonna make other people die with jealousy wishing they were us.
Where'd you get that?
I'll tell you later.
Yeah.
Native American.
I'm gonna change to French trapper.
Cool.
You can't change yours.
It's a guy thing, sweetie.
You think it's a pirate?
Worth k*ll for?
Cheery.
So you believe there's treasure?
Honey, maybe you should focus on your breathing.
Count to ten.
Have a sh*t of Jack.
"Sorry." It's cool.
The bones were stolen twice. The first time from the pirate exhibit. The second time from the bone room here in the Medico-Legal Lab.
I started with the lab theft because we know the bones were stolen between nine p.m. and six a.m. Okay, watch ... here.
Notice the time code.
The camera was turned off.
It would take a lot less time than that to enter the room and gather up the bones and ... escape.
Doctor Goodman?
Can I ask, why are we doing this investigation instead of security?
I'm happy to help, but we do have actual security professionals...
Yeah. Since they're physical magnetic tapes, not stored digitally.
My point is, is that I'm only an amateur at this, and I'm sure the security department is better equipped and trained-
Okay, you don't want to talk about it. I get it. Sir?
Thirty-five point six seconds.
Get back where? Ohhhh. Huh. Wow, you must think I'm an idiot.GOODMAN: I was grandstanding. I can be like that.
So we find out what guards were on duty during the two thefts and ... we might have our thief.
What makes you say that?
Well, he looks that way to me.
I may need a Compazine.
Is there any chance he was... put in there alive?
Talk about the proof in the pudding.
Was this too much even for Booth?
Hmm. I've worked with less.
Afraid not, honey. There's no official database. But I did track down eight cases of brittle bone in the area.
Give me a second.
What's wrong?
This is usually where I type and you talk. You two are never not talking.
Okeydoke. Number of adult males with brittle bone in the metropolitan area is...zero- same with adult females. These are all kids.
Is this disease hereditary?
But if our guy is type 1 and these kids got it passed on from a parent-
Well, let me print you the list.
Hmm.
Sorry I couldn't do more. Skullcap was falling apart faster than I could put a face on it.
Oh-
my-
God.
How could these women not know?
Wait for what? To summon the nerve?
I'll take a front row seat for that. Sorry. Did I say that out loud?
Corner of a 2-by-4, maybe?
Making him dead before he was doused with lye. Oh, happy day.
Lucky the whole tub didn't explode.
One metal for each desperate housewife.
I can't help it. It's so Jerry Springer. First of all, how does anyone juggle two spouses?
Maybe he dissolved himself so there'd be more of him to go around. I'm going to hell, aren't I?
Okay. What you thought were teeth marks, Dr. Saroyan, turned out to be Chinese characters engraved along the side.
They say: "What make foolish man think I speak Chinese?"
And I think you're half Swedish. Let's hear some Swedish.
It's a chopstick. Only it's not the kind you eat with.
Well, you wouldn't comb your hair with a fork, would you?
All right, look. The one character that I was able to translate, off the internet, is the word "beauty," and I realized it's meant for hair.
The irony is that I cannot think of a single woman who would want three husbands.
Excuse me. These women were not stupid. And that is completely gross.
What?
When am I ever appropriate?
Well- Anyway.
Right. Not stupid. And frankly, that they allowed themselves to be duped, is a sad statement on how lean the market is out there.
You certainly are.
Or how compassionate were they to recognize that they were all in the same boat. So why let Larry take his insurance money with him?
Please tell me these women are not going to jail.
Not if they never filed a claim.
I hope so. Hey nice going by the way. Cam tells me your back with your ex.
Mmm.
I said something wrong.
I hope so.
Well, they're from work, honey.
Hank's mother over there is very rich. Something to do with dry cleaning.
Hey, what-what's going on?
Your toast? The word loony comes to mind.
Mm-hmm. Tell me what's going on, Jack.
You know, they should really make an announcement about this whiskey being 150 proof.
Hodgins!
Hodgins, what are you? Possessed by Brennan?
Mhm.
Hey, you stole the body?
Wh-what?
O- Okay, what if somebody looks in the coffin? That's exactly why I'm here.
Oh, hi, Mrs. Reilly.
The-The fact is, um, the undertaker...Uh, he didn't graduate at the top of his class, so...
Yes. Yes, you did, um, but the-the putty that they use to fill in the face has sort of... melted, and, um, his nose is sort of going to the side. Uh, and his hair is like h*tler.
Listen, I really think it would be best if you let Mr. Tung fix him up before you see your son.
I need a computer.
So, while I'm in here, you mind if I erase a few parking tickets?
Here's something.
Three milligrams of tetrodotoxin was delivered to the Jeffersonian three weeks ago.
Uh, no. It wasn't Hank. Delivery was accepted by Dr. Jonah Amayo in Caribbean Studies.
This is why I love them.
How is he?
So you didn't actually paralyze him?
She's just upset because she put Booth in the hospital.
Huh-- like a costume out of the Lord of the Rings, porno version.
It's a spectroline UV stamp. They're designed to withstand evaporation. No match to any local bars or clubs, but I'm still searching.
Yes. You should be nicer to her.
No, geek, sweetie.
Fisher, what doesn't depress you?
And it's at Union Center till the end of the week.
That's definitely our dress.
That'd be you, sweetie.
Yeah, any chance to get some fresh air.
It is. And I know you. Oh, boy! Frog!
We're close to where she buried the sword.
Way to not be creepy.
You know, they could have been k*ll, Hodgins. Sweets is way too young for this. He still has to show his ID to drink.
And Brennan...She shouldn't be putting herself in danger like this.
Why can't she just get her rocks off through sex like a normal person, right?
Saved by the beep, huh?
Yeah.
It was Fiji, okay? I was on vacation.
Full moon. Tropics. Yeah. There was definite consummation activity.
Annulment requires consent from both the husband and the wife.
Tall. Yes. Muscular. Black. That's all I got. You know what, I think his name had a "B" in it - or actually it could have been a "K". You know what, I can make you a sketch?
The FBI forensics team just delivered like a million bone chips.
And Booth says there's more to come.
You are not gonna hire that one either.
And when you don't hire him it just prolongs this lame excuse for you not to go out in the field with Booth.
Because when Hodgins and I ran away from our wedding, we left you and Booth standing at the altar, and that iconic image totally freaked you out.
Sweetie, this is not one of those things where you try to keep a secret and I ferret out the truth. This is where I tell you something that's true so you can catch up to your own reality.
Which actually proves my point. I really I love you to bits and pieces, sweetie. I know, you love me back. We'll talk again when you catch up.
Check out the photo of them kissing: huh, mega-tongue action.
He was barely shaving then. What is she doing, playing squeeze and squish with a nineteen year old?
Wait a minute, Booth.
Check out her face, in the quartet photo.
Like she lost something.
Because she knew he was going to die.
There was?
Brilliant, Booth. You are brilliant. Okay, this time, I... BOOTH: Shh!
Who's Rona Sumner?
I think this is high medieval. Spanish. Possibly Calabrian in origin.
Is she pleased?
Uh, doesn't sound wrong.
Okay, look they have this local drink called kava that is really - Anyway, when it comes to memory, no. Not so much. Which is probably why when I tried to sketch him, I only came up with this.
You having second thoughts?
Adventure?
Booth, the vault is filled with priceless artifacts.
It's Zack! It's Zack.
What are you doing here?
I think you look very rakish. Are you starving?
That's him! I mean, he, he fits the general silhouette.
That's it - his, his name is Birimbau.
Yeah, he most definitely had an accent.
Did Birimbau die when his ship sank?
Oh, okay. That narrows it down. He's a sailor, he's maybe Brazilian, and he's named after a flute.
Hodgins, stop it.
Do you want to wait three years?
Definitely, absolutely not.
Okay.
Nope.
Nope.
Why me?
Fine.
No. I mean, not officially. We have our own places.
What’s the message?
He reeked of bourbon.
I’m not sure I can remember all this.
I draw stuff, okay? Fluids are not my actual area of expertise.
It’s not a problem. I’ll give it to him.
Dr. Saroyan?
I’ve been thinking about it. And I don’t think it was professional of you to leave this file with me.
I’m not Hodgins’ assistant.
The problem is that being his girlfriend is a personal, private thing. And this is work.
And I don’t think it’s good to mix the personal and work. Hodgins and I are completely separate human beings with completely separate careers.
Yeah, it’s my opinion.
Thank you.
Oh my God.
Yeah...extremely...personal.
When did they put security cameras in the storage area? Who else has seen this?
Oh my God. Well, you’ve made your point.
Do we get any points for this occurring during lunch hour? Which is, as you know, personal time.
Fair enough. I had to ask.
Yeah? You know, this is pretty good. I mean, usually with these things you think, God... more yoga, less carbs, you know, but this ain’t bad.
Yeah, yeah. Thanks.
Are you serious?
Cam’s a doctor, honey. That was an amusing rhetorical question.
Should I paint you a picture?
I don’t want to get graphic or anything, but wouldn’t it be difficult to simultaneously bash someone’s head in while servicing them?
Hm.
We have been assuming that the v*ctim was conked on the head and then dragged under the bleachers and compressed.
But now, we could have a three person situation.
Ew, what is that?
Okay, I’ll help. But I do not want to be known as the make-up expert around here.
Mmhmm.
This is a promotional line, marketed specifically to high school and college cheering squads. Tailored to their team colors.
R.J. Manning was under those bleachers getting’ lipsticked by a cheerleader.
Welcome back, Clark. Whoa, have you been working out?
You look so solid and compact.
Sweets thinks it will help me form more committed relationships.
Okay, I get it. But you're squeezable. You should thank our tiger for not eating the v*ctim's teeth. Dentals gave us an easy match.
Yeah, it's...it's dentals. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to ID off dentals. It's sad, huh? He's handsome. He's hot, really.
Oh...my god, Cam. I'm really sorry.
How's it going?
Ooh. What is that smell? Are you wearing cologne?
Yeah, yeah. Uh, the pheromones in tiger urine?
I was turned on by tiger urine?
Tell me about it. I don't know why Sweets thinks this is going to help form more stable relationships. Sex is the glue. We were like epoxy.
Okay. Okay, I get it. I wasn't wrong about Clark though, was I? He's cute. And he's built.
I'm just saying, I'm allowed to look, right? And remember? 'Member?
Hey. I used the measurements of the injuries to run different scenarios on possible w*apon.
Well, yeah...I was burning off a little of my extra desire on the way to work, sweet pea.
Don't worry, Clark, I won't eat you. Not that I'm not tempted.
Really?
The force that would take to inflict injuries this severe would dictate either an extremely strong person over seven feet tall wielding a two-foot long metal pole.
Or...Someone between 5'7" and 5'11" wielding a five-foot metal pole with a ten-centimeter diameter.
Yeah, well, I'm going to need more information for that.
To do what with? Sorry, that just popped out. I needed a longer run.
Oh.
Cool. All yours, Sweets.
HaHaHa. You've got to be kidding me.
Absolutely.
I'd like something to eat, too.
Okay, so let's sit here and we'll sip a little champagne and... you can describe her to me. In detail.
So what did Michelle say to you?
Sweetie, how many times do I have to tell you that most people don't like to be cheated on?
Or are very, very rational and above those archaic notions of monogamy.
Well, there you go. He was playing the field and somebody probably nuked him for it.
Because. Despite the fact that I would love to have my legs wrapped around one right now, men are awful.
And when they get cranky, they eat the cubs. Mm-hmm, men.
Hey. You wanna stay and have a drink?
Oh. Yeah. We hate men.
He does have a terrific ass.
Clark...Hello.
Hello, romantic partner.
Could you be any more politically correct. Or cute?
Uh, temporarily, yeah.
Tell me about it. But unbelievable fantasies.
I don't think that my insurance covers that.
He's very sweet.
you, too, thank you for the tip. Hey, Dr. Oldhouse? I wasn't wrong about Clark, was I? He's tightly wound, but-
That's what I thought.
So we should look for bloody clothing or snake skin. Dr. Bailey is here but she's wearing this white dress.
Oh, boy.
That is definitely torn.
It's Nancy Lauder.
Okay. The dimensions of the vat - six feet wide by eight feet tall - make it impossible for Mattthew Kent to have fractured his brother's pelvis.
What was?
The leg damage. The fractured pelvis..
Hmm. I don't know. Putting testicles on the outside - didn't seem like such a good idea.
Well, it sounds like a lot of volts.
Well, what about a cattle prod?
You compete - to be "King of the Lab"?
She just left.
Hey. Could you stop being so weird? Please? It's making me very uncomfortable.
Excuse me?
mmhmm.
You're gonna pay the ransom, right?
And Hodgins said he found something huge..
Oh my god. Oooh, that's bl*od, isn't it?
God, what are we gonna do?
Well, what about me?
He's on a fishing trip with friends in the White Mountains. No phone, no cell service. You?
It says that the traces of aluminum found on the clothing were almost certainly from the kidnapper's vehicle. Like a box in the back of a trunk or a van.
Yeah, Hodgins sends me a lot of notes. Why bother? With all of this? We don't need evidence, we need millions of dollars.
Did you try just dialing the number?
It's not GPS coordinates or indications of topography.
We all work together. She's my best friend. And Hodgins - Hodgins -
And Hodgins is all about dirt.
But it's numbers, Zack. It's for you. Hodgins would have written me a line of poetry or something.
Keep going, Zack.
It means he knows where they are.
Jack. Come 'on
I went to visit you at the hospital. I brought you this
No, they didn't. You left without being discharged. You stole crutches - which I had to pay for.
Could you please look at me? You were buried alive. You were operated on without an anesthetic. You were pumped full of drugs. You really should be lying down.
We're gonna catch him, okay. I promise you. We're gonna start tomorrow. All of us, together.
I thought that they gave you something for that?
Okay. Then you should come home with me.
When you open your eyes, I'll be there.
Yeah.
I could work it up to a three dimensional image, see if that helps/
Not when she was lowly grad student, Zack. Upload all the ditigal info Brennan sent you to my mainframe and lighten up Z-man.
Teeth marks?
Ugh, it's like a zombie movie.
Somebody gnawed on this arm like some kind of man-corn?
We needed another reason not to eat frog ZACK: I'm going to make a cast of these markings, I won't get a full dental impression but we'll at least get something.
It's fairly simple, two colours...red and black...some kind of native design.
That's pretty good...making a woman laugh at a third nostril.
Zack is definitely ahead on points . Well, there it is.
The skin in the scat has a sun on it.
Hi Booth. Hi, I'm Angela Montenegro.
It's a Haida sun motif.
Hey Booth, I've got a thing for tattoos, you got any?
I'm sorry sweetie, but what's up with that town? You getting any from that hot overnight guy?
Is that town totally wasted on you sweetie because I take this as a sign from God to loosen up. You know what they say: What happens in Aurora, stays in Aurora. Hey ...
Oh, you think it's human?
So, did you catch the guy?
So you two have the night free?
What?
Are you two fighting?
Yeah, something about Indian territory?
Yeah, I'll tell Zack.
Hey, you have to take that man for a drink...and have a little fun yourself.
Oooh, very pretty.
Thank you, for ruining my moment.
Are Douglas-fir trees very very rare in the woods?
Then you really haven't found anything useful, have you?
Want to get something to eat?
Ah, you're expecting a delivery tonight.
And you're going to zoom him.
Zack, I got the measurements for your saw from the Angelator. Now all you have to do is find a match...say thank you with gifts. Did you work all night?
Is that anything like spanking the monkey?
Is there any other kind?
That'll impress the hot courier.
Ange, I'm going to beam you some stills of what looks like a ritualistic Indian site. A medicine wheel of some kind.
We're dealing with a cannibal.
So we're looking for maybe a scarecrow, tin man or a lion?
Over here, they were dug up by a bear. One showing signs that his arm was eaten by the cannibal, the other missing her heart.
They checked the site, there were only these two.
OK.
She was eaten by a machine?
Sweetie, Zack wants to beam you something.
See if you can tell what it is, but if you're in a public place, you might want to cover your screen.
2.4 millimeters.
You kidding? It's like watching the clash of the horny titans.
Oh. oh...oh. That is really sweet, thank you.
The ends of his fingers look b*rned.
Alright, these are children's shoes, but they're a size 11.
I tracked down the manufacturer in Sri Lanka, and guess what? Special order.
Oh, Cam thinks that Hodgins should move into Zack's Ookey room.
You and me, Wendell, we need to talk.
Hey, Wendell, come in. What can I do for you?
That's not technically a question, so there's not much for me to go on.
You're worried about getting fired because you can't satisfy Doctor Brennan, right?
Wendell, Wendell hold on. You never actually asked me a question.
Could you please not call Zack a psycho? Crazy as it sounds we all still love him.
What, boy toy... as in sexual? No. Where did you get- no. Absolutely not.
Again, no. Wrong.
No, I don't think so.
Wendell, stop. You need to look for some alternative explanation for what you think happened between you and Brennan. And if you can't think of anything than you should just assume you're hallucinating. Or insane. Because she absolutely didn't hit on you. I'm glad we talked.
I was able to recreate a call list from the sim.
Once a day for thirty days at exactly the same time.
I called the number and recorded the answer.
Does that mean anything to you?
Okay, here's the thing. This new guy, Wendell? He might be nuts.
He thinks Brennan hit on him.
He says she asked him if he was interested in having sex with an older woman. Which is impossible. Which I set him straight about, in no uncertain terms believe you me.
No no. I've known Brennan for years, and there's no way, believe me she had a-
Huh. Well Wendell also says that he owes a lot of people a lot of money. And that he really needs this job. Like, the mob or something.
You know, the last time I listened to you, you broke up me and Hodgins.
Yeah.
Yeah. .
Somebody as smart as you should know better.
So... You weren't totally wrong about Doctor Brennan.
No, no. Not totally wrong, I said. When she asked you about your experiences with older women, her interest was anthropological.
She's direct. And awkward. Now, you've got two choices here. You either answer the question, like me or Zack, or you tell her she's being inappropriate, like Booth or Cam. Either way, she's not going to hold it against you.
Yeah. Frankly I'm more worried about the money owing thing.
Yeah but you can't work on legal cases if the wrong kind of people have leverage on you, right?
Oh, no, I'm trying to help, Wendell, it's not-
Could you please not yell?
Oh! I... I, I thought you owed the mob money. Like, we're working on a mob case and you owe the mob money.
Yeah, see the problem?
Wow, Wendell. Once you start talking, it's... wow.
I admit, it takes some getting used to. Good luck.
Potatoes?
Don't blame Wendell; he's doing very well.
Oh well then I totally change my mind about Sweets. I now love him.
Of course he was.
What, you mean as carry on luggage?
We've made some progress on the mystery passenger.
I have a theory.
Young, beautiful girl, doesn't appear on the in flight manifest, group of how powered politicos.
Ugh, you're so sweet, honey. You really are.
Yeah... Anything you want to tell us about the bone bits you care about?
So middle aged guy.
You mean after the Communist thing?
We get it. You're a rebel.
There's not enough skull here for me to do a reconstruction.
Ah, I could construct a schematic and see if the shard fit the general shape of the skull, if I had a picture.
What about the other ones, the jagged marks?
What like a jigsaw or a chainsaw?
You know blades move in several distinctive ways.
Well, I'm never trusting any of us again. We're that good at lying, huh?
This is the part that makes me queasy.
Either talk loudly enough so I can hear all the way or whisper so I can't.
Or he'd suspend us all for defying him.
Uh which is my cue?
Hello.
Hi, Angela Montenegro.
Oh, uh nothing that can't wait.
In as far as I know, which is quite far believe me, no one has tried to kiss Brennan in this office and lived to tell about it.
It's a uh, it's a schematic comparing the skull fragments we found on the golf course to pictures of your father.
Yeah there's a pretty good chance.
Are you hooking up later?
Why not?
I was not. I was being your wing man.
I was rendering assistance and enabling where needed.
Oh now you're just looking for excuses not to get involved.
Plane crash v*ctim number four, captain Jacob Howard, pilot, age forty-seven, height five foot six, weight approximately one hundred and sixty seven pounds.
v*ctim number five, Shen Ru Fong, age fifty-six, height five foot six, weight approximately one hundred and forty pounds.
I reconstructed her face from the partial skull.
What's going on? Why is every guy from the Jeffersonian out here?
Oh my God! They're all out here because you're going to feed something through this wood chipper.
Oh, ugh.
Liars! You just want to see what happens when you toss some frozen pig into a wood chipper.
Satellite imagery of the golf course. These three dots show where the bone fragments were found.
The V shape indicates the maximum distance from the point of origin a bone fragment could have traveled given similar wind speeds and ambient temperatures.
The question is, in order to use the guy's pig grinding experiment, where do we place the wood chipper?
So the evidence would wash away...
That is a small access road for maintenance vehicles.
Ooooo, sweet smell of success...
Brennan is still waiting for an update.
The exact wood chipper you fed the frozen pig through.
Well who else would Ray Sparks have motive to k*ll?
The body was frozen.
The v*ctim's skull was in good shape. No real shrinkage from the fire. I'm running a comparison between the facial reconstruction and the photos in the immigration database. I hear we're all gonna get grilled by some mysterious government chick.
Better believe it, Bucko.
The best kind.
Okay.
Donovan Dimitri Decker. Born 1997. He's eight years old.
That's weird right?
Different things. Mostly looking. I'm an artist.
My husband?
Oh. Oh. Wow. You mean that actually took? Really? It didn't seem legal. We were in figi. You know there was a fire dance. You know how those things can go, right?
Right.
Sometimes. Yeah But not always, but there's also a sense of accomplishment. And Brennan needs me here, so I feel a personal connection there. But you know, the world is a big place. Frankly, I'm emotionally ambivalent on the subject. Was that the wrong answer? I should be more, "Oh this is the best job in the world and I'm proud to serve my country." Right? Right? Am I going to fast here? Am I treating you too much like a therapist? Should we stop now? Actually . . . because we could pick this up later if you . . . Yeah.
Carl Decker is 1.7 meters tall. And weighs 58.2 kilograms.
Be glad he's so lean. Should make him easier to find.
I talked to Pickering.
She's knows a lot about us. It's creepy.
Couldn't you get the file?
Mm-Hmm. Hmm. A secret life can cause marital strife.
Doesn't look like a hit man.
Hodgins dried out and separated the pages. I digitized them an ajusted for ink seepage.
No. It's a prototype. It's handmade.
Yeah, sure.
Oh, I managed to get some of the text back from this panel. Cheerful little tyke.
Can you really pull all that information from a comic book?
Such as "Artists are doomed to a life of loneliness because they aren't able to think beyond instant gratification".
Yeah.
A girl he literally can't approach. What if Warren was only... you know, supplying his own masturbatory materials?
So Citizen 14 wants to rescue the Opalescence from the Twisted. Could this be Warren's mother and stepfather?
You know, they did mention that one of those comic book geeks was a blue girl.
Warren Granger on the night he died, wearing his costume.
What could he have done to make somebody so angry at him?
He went looking for the Twisted.
Stew Ellis.
Look. Warren Granger wrote this comic book, but it was drawn by Stew Ellis.
Warren Granger's spinal cord was severed by something sharp, but not a kn*fe.
The closest match I could find would be a corkscrew or a Tibetan skull kn*fe but neither of them explain how foreign bone was left lodged in the vertebrae.
A laser cutlass. That thing that allowed him to hear through walls.
Well, why would he be k*ll by his own w*apon?
Citizen 14's arsenal.
That's his main w*apon. It's a three-sided throwing kn*fe that returns to him. But none of them make the wound that resemble the one that severed Warren's spinal cord.
Look, Hodgins, we both decided it’s over. I don’t want any gifts.
Oh, right. Sorry. That’s helpful, that bow.
Well, according to my sketch, the v*ctim was a model for Picasso.
Mr. Cheerful is putting more pieces together for me.
Great. We’re two professionals.
I should finish this, ‘cause this is...
Okay.
Great. I don’t know how to act around Hodgins.
We just ended a relationship that was intense, both emotionally and sexually. Now rather than intense we’re just... plain tense. We don’t look at each other, everything is fraught with meaning. Brennan, you’re supposed to say something.
Something that will make me feel better.
What? No. Huh? I...I don’t want you to fire him.
Yeah, of course. Thank you, though, for the offer. It was...it was very sweet.
Oh, absolutely, sweetie. Thank you, it was...
Hey!
Fries look good.
If you don’t want them. So, I need some advice.
How do I deal with Hodgins? I mean, we broke up so I just want it to be over with so I can get back to work without all this unspoken drama, you know what I’m saying?
Who says it was unsuccessful?
Do you love your parents?
But you don’t live together anymore. Does that mean your relationship with Mom and Dad was unsuccessful?
I do. Sometimes you have to move on, whatever your feelings.
Okay. So let’s deal with it.
He has kind eyes, great sense of humor, cute ass. He does this thing where...
No. I think I’m okay.
Look, Sweets, the way I look at it, if I’m sh*t by an arrow, I-I don’t need to know where the arrow was made, or what kind of bow it came from, or even who it was who sh*t me. I just need to get it out of my chest. So...thank you. This has been helpful. You’re good. Thanks for the fries.
Hey.
Look, this tension between us, I hate it. I-I mean, I know that we broke up and everything, but I’ve experienced loss before and lived through it and... you have, too. And I’m not gonna pretend this didn’t happen because it might be easier to break up. I’m going to relive us huddled last winter in that cabin in Montana when the lights went out and the heat went out and laughing our asses off when you tried explaining that spectrometer thingy to me. So, I am not going to hide anymore, and I’m not going to walk on eggshells. I am just going to accept that the whole damn mess happened, and pain or not, I’m glad it did.
Somebody sent you human kneecaps in the mail? That is like..blech.
Wait a minute, I've seen that before. That symbol looks familiar, like it's from some kind off seal...
She can stay with me.
Which is why the symbol looks so familiar, I've seen it on a tapestry - in the vault.
And all of the relics, including that skeleton, can be traced to the Gormogons.
Okay, this tapestry here? Is 'off' somehow.
Barabbas. A m*rder and r*pist who was condemned to death in New Testament Jerusalem.
To the Gormogons, Barabbas is an enduring symbol of all that is backwards, upside down or inside out.
It's a sign to interpret it backwards or in a mirror or upside down.
And do you see the compass and the square?
The presence of Barabbas on this means backwards and upside down . So when the compass is inverted, it points to some very interesting landmarks.
The place where Father Cooper's body was dumped.
And this falls very precisely.
I found the same symbol that was mailed to Dr. Brennan, on this tapestry.
Uh...okay. The Architect. The Martyr. The Orator. The Musician. The Bishop. The Corrupter-
The corrupter.
So, Gormogon used to be the apprentice.
Yeah. He k*ll himself.
The Bishop and The Musician.
No, Zack. Cam meant, "What does it mean."
And how long would that take?
Uh...JBF.
No. wait a minute. I got it.
He's an artist. He's finished something and It's terrible, but to him this is a piece of art. It's a signature.
No, I'm telling you. This is a signature.
An archive.
'Cause they're all rigged to blow up when you open them.
Hey, Booth, I'm looking at these pictures you gave me, and body language and facial expressions tell some very interesting stories.
He holds himself separate from the congregation. What do you think that means?
He's a latecomer to the church, huh? That's a good one.
It doesn't look like things are going so great with the wife.
Hold on a minute. Look at the last photo. He knew.
I can. He knew that she used to be a man.
I told you he knew.
You're just pretending to be a jerk to get a rise out of this guy, right?
Yeah. I'm with him on this one.
Excuse me.
Hey, I want to show you something.
Vroom, vroom, kid. You're already in my rearview mirror.
Anyway, what I did was ...here she is as a woman.
Here I made her more masculine. I made the bony prominences more robust, increased the size of the mastoid processes and the nuchal crests.
It doesn't look like anybody you recognize?
I also added facial hair. Do you recognize him now?
That's exactly what I thought.
Yeah, on a world tour. His followers said he was the first of many who'd be taken up in the Rapture.
Yeah, well, check this out.
One year ago, today, you buried your mother. You laid her to rest, here. You're marking the anniversary
Well, part of you is made up of your mother, right?
So, honor that part of yourself. Visualize a memory of her. See what it brings up.
I'll wait in the car.
Billy Ray McKenna shortly before he was known as "Cement Head."
And, it's not how he died.
"Wiggling." Up and down is "wiggling."
Ugh. This is the bad part.
Well, if the ice pick was inserted and then waggled, it would affect the median nerve around the T1 never roots.
Anterior palm, thumb, index and middle fingers.
wiggled -
We think he wiggled instead of waggled.
It's a terrible way to die.
I'd like to give it a try.
Um, what do you want us to do?
That the man was a pig?
I got it - a taxicab. McKenna was k*ll in a taxicab.
Where are you going?
Brennan, wait.
What's goin' on?
I'm coming with you.BRENNAN: No.
I can't fight or sh**t a g*n, but if something bad happens I can spit with deadly accuracy.
What can't you tell me?
Alright, alright. Hodgins is outside in his fastest car. It's Italian. One call, and he follows you everywhere.
Alright, you're after a crazy, old, ice-pick hit man who has Booth. You need help. Look at my face. Do you really see me back down?
From whom?
Are you serious?
Your father is helping you?
Oh, my....
Obviously, Brennan found out from her father who is a wanted fugitive.
Has anybody noticed that every time there's a panic situation, all eyes turn to Hodgins?
What's he suppose to do?
Shoes?
What, like a copier, or -
"D-330 vacuum plating processor."?
You just lied your ass off to the Federal Bureau of Investigations.
Cats are so disdainful.
Dog?
Cat?
What'cha gonna pick?
Yet. Look at him, Rox. Look at his warm, brown eyes.
Well, it turns out, there aren't that many 16-year-old girls who are six feet tall on the missing persons list.
So... Roxie and I are getting a dog.
Hey! I'm Angela.
No, uh, Roxie.
Relaxin? Sounds like something you could get arrested for taking.
His name is Donatello, and he's a rescue, and he needs a good home. One caveat, though - he's afraid of the wind.
Wow, you really don't want this dog, do you? Is it because Donatello is a stupid name?
...yeah. You're breaking up with me.
You don't have to say anything, Rox, it's okay.
Yeah, but we decide when the moments pass.
Yeah...
Okay.
Hey, Arastoo.
Hey. Uh, listen, do you need me any more here today? 'Cause I could really use a...
Roxie and I broke up, and I just...
Wow. That was great.
Heh, I didn't need comfort. But I needed a good tumble.
I'm fine about Roxie. People come and go in life.
Basically, she said she wants somebody who doesn't just live in the moment, but who considers the future. What's wrong with the moment?
But?
So let me get this straight. To be together, then it has to be all about the future?
So, this, right now, this isn't together?
See, this is what happens when all you worry about is the future. Pregnant teenagers.
Yeah. True.
Oh, yeah. Totally. It was so worth it.
B-F-Fs. Best friends forever.
I already did.
Yeah, but he can't keep it casual. He's the marrying kind.
sh**t.
Thank you.
Conditions always change.
I was with you until there.
Uh, a minor correction there: I use my heart.
Metaphoric heart, sweetie. Stay with me here, right? Love, like art, comes from the moments where two people become one.
Right. But all beauty is transient and of the moment.
You know, it sounds like we are in agreement, which is worrying me just a little bit.
How did he find scratches? The v*ctim looked like beef jerky.
That's impressive.
Sure, I remember that from growing up a farm girl in Amish country.
Sarcasm, Brennan. I'm sorry.
Have you ever noticed that a sunset looks more beautiful when you share it with somebody that you care about?
Okay.
Yeah. Hi, Arastoo, how are you?
Thank you, Arastoo. Thanks very much.
Just concentrate on your symptoms. That's all he's gonna ask about. I'll look for this thing here. Brennan says it's the m*rder w*apon.
So you heard about me and Roxie?
Oh, no, really, it's absolutely fine.
I also had a little afternoon delight with Hodgins, but let's just say it's not really his thing.
No, it's totally fine.
Brennan approves of the way that I conduct my love life.
Yeah. What's wrong with living in the moment?
Oh, it is. Definitely.
No, it is.
It is.
What?
Oh, no, I'm... I'm happy living in the moment. What you say is merely interesting.
I don't like that.
Why?
So, don't have sex?
Oh, my G... Six months? Why not ten years?
Okay, honey, we're up. This is us, a happily married couple.
Okay.
Oh, well, he's not a fireman yet, Dr. Fitts, he's just training.
Spends a little too much time on the Internet, if you know what I mean.
Not as much as you.
No, thank you. I'm going to go have sex.
Okay. Sure you don't want to come? Troy can call a friend.
And don't I know it.
You guys are pathetic. It's Friday night.
Everybody, this is Troy.
Could you just wait here one second?
Why did you call me in? Look at this guy. He's cuter than a monkey with a puppy.
But I am on a date. With Troy. He's a man. Wave. What's the big steaming gigantic rush?
Good one. Troy, sweetie. I've got a few things to do around here. Do you mind just hanging out for a little while?
You'd better make it an hour, minimum.
Do not talk to him. Wait in the lounge, baby. It's up those stairs right over there. Don't talk to anybody.
April Wright's body just arrived.
Don't look, sweetie.
Uh, this job is so hard to describe online.
Which is consistent with the arm being dragged through gravel after the attack.
I concur with Zack. We have a visual match on the pubic hair.
I've scanned in all the X-rays and built a 3-D model. Troy would have liked that. Bastard.
What's that?
I'm plugging in all the data from the area to get the location with the closest match.
Hey guys. Wanna see something cool?
I assume you're familiar with the Shroud of Turin?
This is no hoax. On the fabric covering John Doe's skull, there are tissue stains around the eye sockets, the nose and the mouth. This is essentially a photo negative of his features.
I call it the Shroud of Montenegro. I used computer tomography to create x- ray slices of the underlying facial architecture. Selective laser centering, allowed me to map unimprinted areas. Skin tone and hair color were extrapolated based on Dr. Saroyan's data.
I'm running our facial reconstruction through the Missing and Exploited Persons database.
Got it. Dylan Crane, 17.
Honor student from a nice neighborhood in Alexanria.
He disappeared three weeks ago with his girlfriend, Kelly Morris - who is in the foster system.
Is there anything I can do?
Ugh.
It's a strange place for two people in love to end up.
No. A squat. In an abandoned pipe factory.
What were you talking about?
Oh, yeah.
Mmm.
If he finds it, and it matches the rust found in the scratch marks then we can tie Kelly to the w*apon.
Remember that first slow dance?
Some horrible power ballad.
Oh, God. Lewis Cole. Mmm. He was a drummer. He had this hair. It was-
Dr. Saroyan, I don't want to be overly dramatic or anything but if you lose Brennan, you lose us all.
Really. And Booth too.
Thank you.
You are good.
Okay. Booth, you're Dylan Crane.
Cam?
Okay, you two. You are young. You are in love. You're about to break up. But this is very tragic. It's very emotionally fraught.
Kelly would have had to strike him with the pipe from behind and then drive him through the glass.
Guys, I need a Kevin Duncan.
Kelly grabs the pipe away from him. But Dylan is losing consciousness.
She's afraid of him.
Hey. I have a computer rendering of what our v*ctim may have looked like. Look at him. He’s a puppy.
Sometimes puppies are big.
So he was never buried in a sanctioned grave. So probably m*rder.
Oh, sorry, sorry. I put the music on to get me in the right space. Well, extrapolating from the stains on the skull, it turns out that at the time of his death, our v*ctim looked like this.
Yeah, I ran this through my facial recognition program with an image search of metal Web pages. Check this out.
So our v*ctim—Mayhem—was the bassist. The drummer is Wrath and the guitarist Pinworm, but they do have a new bassist now. His name is Grinder.
Yeah, kind of ruins the magic when you find out that Satan’s name is Todd or Larry.
Okay, I did an Internet search of Spew’s concerts. Now, this stuff is all uploaded from cell phones, so the quality is crap. Alright, check this out. This girl runs up. Here’s the g*n. She fires, then Mayhem literally spews the bl*od all over the crowd. And there’s the bl*od.
Yeah, it’s a set piece. I’ve seen this same setup maybe 60 times in two years.
I’m pretty sure it is.
Except I combined all the different cell phone versions...
Well, they all contain embedded cell phone codes so, yeah.
This is incredible. I can't believe this is an actual slave ship. Where did they find it?
Yeah, well this might help. It's a copy of the outgoing manifest, and it lists all the slaves they were transporting to New Orleans. There's age, and race, and degree of color. This is really detailed, in a totally horrible, disgusting, sucky kind of way.
Got it, Pollodore Nelson.
Ok, there's only one woman that small.
Oh no.
The origin of life looks like a pink Chia pet?
Ok, now you've lost me.
You know, it's actually kind of attractive up close.
Well, let me scan the skull and then I can build a facial reconstruction from it.
How can you compare a m*rder v*ctim to ocean snot that looks like something Barbie wore to the prom?
Yeah well, it's not the same thing.
Really?
Send him back to childhood, huh?
It's hard to believe that ten years from this, he's going to be stealing IDs and getting himself k*ll. Ok, that's him. We found him.
One person gets k*ll, and it's m*rder, millions get k*ll and it's history.
Right here, Hany Beaufort. Yeah, but they're not just bones.
I'm going to need to borrow these skulls.
Are you ok?
Well, we're trying, but Hodgins is...
You've gotta be kidding.
No, never again, I cannot even tell you.
Oh, I'm..I...how long have I been sitting here?
I'm so sorry, babe. I totally lost track.
Kind of feel like I have to.
Well yeah, but he was somebody's baby too , and I want our baby to know that. Oh, wow, I sound like a crazy woman, don't I?
Oh, crap, already?
Then I should take that sandwich.
Yes, I know, pregnancy is so weird. I love you.
Hey! We're uh, almost wrapped up.
No, I was actually, I was talking about the Amalia Rose. The remains have been identified and they're moving them into the exhibit. The press conference is tomorrow.
Not that this is any of my business, but um, I sort of thought that you'd be more interested.
I just thought...
I'm sorry, Cam, I should've been more sensitive.
Hey!
What's wrong?
So, other than the cancer survivor who died in Sweets' subway car, there were no other fatalities; just a couple chimneys down and some stuff falling off the shelves. Really rotten luck for that poor guy...and this one, too, apparently.
Hello. I'm Angela Montenegro.
Oh, well, I have a lot more fun than Amanda.
Right this way.
Absolutely, yeah, we're, uh, we're best friends.
Oh, no, no. No, no, no, no. Not-not me. Wha-what are you writing there? Stop writing. The books and life are not the same thing. Most of the time.
She loves to write.
Yes.....but listen, that does not mean that I had a thing with a Norwegian prince. You got that, right? That Amanda and I are different people? Belgian and Norwegian are not at all the same thing. Believe me.
Martin Aragon. 30 years old. Lives in Kingman Park.
He's a scribe.
Seriously, he wrote letters for a living. His, uh, business partner's name is Sophia Meade.
Well, guess they're gonna need a shorter word for that.
How's your rat poop?
Page 187? I am not reading the sparky bits to you. You can get somebody else to do that, sicko.
Right, I remember. I was there.
It's a very good thing.
You mean, did I give you credit?
No.
Well, that's good then.
So, these are all the letters he was paid to write?
That is very romantic; somebody definitely got their money's worth.
Yeah, but, this is for the customer.
Uh, guys I'm gonna leave.
What's going on, Sweets?
Okay. I can check these e-mail headers to see who got this letters. maybe it was some love affair gone wrong. Okay,the server sent the message to this IP address. The remote desktop is open.
Uh...well, we now have full control over the computer that received these emails.
Turned the web cam on.
Well, then that is who Martin Aragon sent the love letters to.
Uh, Cam asked me get you out of the lab.
Because you keep sighing and moaning.
No, no. You were sharing with everyone.
I'm artist, Daisy and the Sienna has plenty of room. Plus, I stink at parallel parking and the back up
Of course. Hasn't everybody?
Never?
So, you think that Sweets is going to break up with you?
Oh, you don't have anything to worry about.
Because before they break up with you guys usually get really affectionate and sweet.
No. No, not always.
Not a lot.
I feel uncomfortable talking about this. Is this because of something that that Japanese journalist said?
Yeah. I mean, I might have given her a few suggestions. That'all.
Okay, look, Brennan types up her book and then I go to her place and I lie on the couch, I mean, with a glass of wine,and she reads me the book. I make suggestions.
Well, yeah. Yeah. And I say..."You know what would be great here? If they were naked. Or um, "What if he says this to her and then they laugh and then they kiss?" You know, that kind of stuff.
No, do not do that, Booth. She writes the book. I just drink wine and make suggestions. Like her editor. And editors do not get credit.
What is it with you guys and page 187? I have to go. I'm busy.
Now, this is a thin clothing of blue colour.
Right. The angle of applied force was 28 degrees. So if I extend the incidence lines, the point of intersection is here. Which means he was standing between 45 and 60 centimeters in front of the glass object when he was sh*t.
Now,I scanned for color frequencs on the wall where the b*llet would have disintegrated. The blue polymer emits about 420 nanomers.
What is this?
My share of what?
Okay, would you stop talking as though I know what you're talking about?
Does this have to do with Hodgins and the whole sex thing on page 187?
So, is this Booth's idea?
Well, I meant the whole "share" thing.
Oooh.
Wow..um, this is... this is twenty-five percent?
Well, this is what he was supposed to look like
Well, uh, close...He was sh*t by a blunderbuss, pelted by an angry mob and then b*rned.
It was funny .
Well, Booth mostly broke the code. Column one is initials and nicknames, Beaver had approximately fifty regular clients. Column two is the day of the week BRENNAN: What is the significance of this sequence? Foot, bat, pig, dimple, fish BOOTH: Those are sports he took bets on, football, basketball, baseball, soccer, golf
Beaver had over two thousand dollars in the suitcase. This whole operation generated twelve thousand Dollars this year.
Alright, now three of these people, Zimmer, CC and 4x4, they all owed him over three grand, a piece.
Yeah, that is worth looking into. Ok, I found something else in his computer. A month ago, he hacked in the university's computer system and went straight to the chemistry's professor secure server and downloaded the exam.
Yeah, it was the third time he hacked in the chemistry's page
Professor Marlene Twardosh BOOTH: Well... Cut to - Jeffersonian Lab
Do any of them offer us cause of death?
Ouch, what about the third?
He fell backwards, tried to break his fall with his hands stretch behind him.
Oh! That should be good!
Hodgins and Arastooo have an estimate if how far the v*ctim fell.
You know what this means, don't you?
So, rock, paper, scissors to see who stays to babysits her?
Yess!
Four people bought the bogus exam from Beaver, all members of the golf team. At the time of his death though, they were at a tournament in North Carolina.
Something's bothering me about this. I went through the kid's computer and there's absolutely no indication that he had the k*ll to hack in the University's secure server.
There're four JPG files on this drive. Two of them are total goners, but here's what I got for number three.
No...but this one's almost done.
You haven't eaten anything all day. Now, I have some k*ll yellowtail here and spicy tuna rolls.
The v*ctim used to say that. You think that homeless mole-guy k*ll her?
Well, he had her camera and her bloody clothes. Plus, he's k*ll people before.
Booth has k*ll people as a law enforcer. What if, from mole-man's point of view, Marni was a criminal?
Like you?
Just that I wish you were a little more scared, Brennan.
Running after a m*rder in the dark is not being an observer.
More and more of your work is outside of this lab, running after bad guys. Just promise me you'll be careful.
Brennan, I understand that this is what you do when things get too close to home You get all analytical and academic. I just want you to know that maybe Marni Hunter did the same thing. And now she's dead.
Yes, I do.
Because I have not taken official possession of this piece of evidence.
1778.
Aren't you going to go after him?
Why not?
Here's the recreation. Here are the wounds.
Okay, the lasers can measure the angle of the attack and the amount of damage that was done to the living bone of the skull; 3.3 millimeters indentation into the bone at the deepest point which trailed off to 0.04 millimeters.
Yeah, she saw it coming. The angle of the attack was between 50 and 53 degrees.
So the attacker was left-handed.
Sometimes that's all it takes.
You said he was suspicious. What if I can't get him to trust me.
I'm not nervous. I'm scared. I don't know how to talk to crazy people unless I'm dating them.
Okay. I don't know how to talk to people who live underground and who might have tossed a documentary filmmaker down a hole.
Yes.
You live underground.
Um, you tell me what the blonde looks like and I draw her.
Yeah. Yeah, but more.
Yes, you know, how she seemed to you. You know, your, uh, your impressions.
Yeah.
That was a total bust.
Yeah, he provided me with a description all right.
See, this is what happens when you ask for information from the mentally ill.
I drew it.
Hmph. Damn, I'm good.
I entered all the modern and historical city plans, including ventilation shafts and tunnels, plus the newer schematics.
Blue is modern, near 100% accurate. Yellow is historical.
Red represents less exact renderings from stories, memoirs, accounts from city workers...
Mm, gotcha.
Storm sewer. H-15B.
What's funny?
Harold's being released.
Well, that might explain why my sketch isn't getting any hits from the missing children's database.
Okay, this is the color she would've had from the bleaching.
I hate working with kids. Childhood should be all about swings.
Yeah. You know, how high can I go? If I twist the chains, how fast will I spin?
Exactly.
Yeah, me too.
Hodgins supplied the types of makeup. And that's what we've got.
In the middle of a Little Miss Junior Patriot Pageant.
FBI sent over the security tapes from the hotel where Brianna's pageant was held. I'm running them through the body mass recognition program. Maybe we'll find a sh*t of her leaving with somebody.
You know me. I'm all about the swings.
You bring me something?
I'll give it a sh*t.
Is that good?
Hodgins --
I -- I just don't think it -- -- would be a good idea.
I mean, we work together, Jack.
I'll examine the paper after I go through the videos.
Hey, guys, you should take a look at this.
This was time-stamped a half-hour before Jackie Swanson reported Brianna missing. There.
Hodgins asked me out.
I'm not hiding. I need advice.
Yes.
Yes.
Phylogenetic systematics. I have no idea what that is.
Well, I can't ask Cam.
Brennan!
No.
Wait. You can't pretend you didn't hear about this.
"No."
All of a sudden, you have an opinion on this?
There's an anthropological answer?
What about this hierarchical-sexual ... ?
Phylogenetic systematics.
Really. Hmm.
I accept -- -- going on a date -- -- with you. Soon.
Wow. That is soon.
You asked me. Figure it out.
Hey, you have a different girlfriend twice a month.
So what's up? We here to walk a dog or something?
Oh, my God.
I'm gonna puke.
Ohhh! I'm gonna puke, I'm gonna puke.
Yes.
Not -- don't do it again.
I never thought I'd be doing this again.
Really.
Did you?
I'm sure it did.
Better than a dream, huh? You're shameless.
All right, you better get -- get -- you are gonna k*ll yourself.
No?
What now?
I got something. Okay. I don't know if this helps you. "Lisa Fisher, 1976 Raspberry Queen. Holly Walters, Raspberry Princess. Kristen Madigan, Little Miss Raspberry Blossom."
Hi.
Yeah. I was avoiding you.
It was perfect.
Maybe the best date I've ever had.
Yeah.
Because it was supposed to fall flat. That way, we'd both know that this wasn't meant to be ...
... and we'd go back to the way we were before.
Look ... ... Brennan is my best friend, and -- -- Zack is -- -- whatever the hell he is, and -- -- when this goes wrong, it -- it pulls everybody else into it. And ... what the great ... date ... tells us is ... ... that when it goes wrong --
Yeah.
So ... ... we go back, right?
Friends.
Friends.
Celibacy is a lot like fasting.
At first you're out of sorts and agitated and then you sort of push through to a kind of clarity.
No. I'm still at the agitated and horny stage.
Sweets thinks it will do me good to put sex on the back burner in order to related to people in other...
Um...
Sweetie, can you pay for this? I have to go.
I have to save Hodgins' life.
Hey, hey. Uh, you have to leave town.
My father is here.
Well he has sort of a blind spot when it comes to me so I think you should just get out of town until I can call him off.
Basically, Hodgins sees himself as Dr. Nemo.
It's just a glancing blow.
Vincent pointed out that each break appears to have happened at the weakest part in each bone.
The way a building would fall apart during an earthquake.
Oh god. Well what did he say?
I told you so.
Did you take off your glasses when you said it?
It was a mutual break-up.
Dad... ANGELA'S DAD: Could he have stopped it?
Yeah...Yeah...But so could I.
I wish you wouldn't.
Ameliorate? Honest?
Thank you...very much.
Hey, wait a minute. Speaking of Hodgins...has anybody seen Hodgins? Oh God.
Yeah. Founder of the Natural Sun organic supermarket chain.
Hey, it's worth it. Organic, there's no pesticides. It's from sustainable farms. Every time that I buy something there, I feel so virtuous.
Regular circular shapes, cross-hatching, I'd say button marks. Like buttons from the v*ctim's shirt were pressed into his flesh while he decomposed.
Glad to help.
Hodgins found insect activity that's only found on pineapple plants.
I found this article about the environmental impact caused by transporting crops over long distances. It mentions this farmer in Virginia who was trying to grow tropical crops in a hot house.
Like pineapples.
My sketch isn't matching any of the missing women on file.
Poor thing. Everybody should be missed.
Somebody tried to crush her?
Okay, this will help you visualize the pattern of the wounds.
I'm sure he'll apologize when we catch him. There are five puncture wounds to Frank's chest.
How'd you get pitchfork?
So your suspect is going to give me a description of your suspect? I'm not following.
I've never really found stoned guys that dependable. Except for cookies. They always have good cookies.
Is it always like this when you two are together?
It's kind of hot.
I'll crush you like a bug, dude. Describe the guy.
This is a sketch based on tissue markers on the skull.
Did you have to whisper that in my ear?
Testosterone spill on aisle 4.
Jim Lopata. Not the sicko, the sicko's v*ctim.
They're cute...for rodents.
But now that we've confiscated them, shouldn't they be safe? I mean, they're material witnesses.
Zack...
Wow.
Now what?
Can't we just wait 'til nature takes it's course?
Please tell me you don't.
I need to go to my - office....
Hot!
Sully cares about you, honey. It's a good thing.
And if he does he won't like you?
This one.
Don't use your brain so much, sweetie. You have other organs that can give you far more pleasure.
Look. It might end with Sully. Sure. But I don't think you want to rush the process. Look at Hodgins and I. We're running on sex and laughing. The only thought comes when we order take out in bed.
Hey, we did it in the storage locker an hour ago...I am thrilled.
Hey, Brennan, could I talk to you in private, please?
You're gonna think I'm crazy.
Somebody left a human skull in a box on the sheriff's porch. He says it was probably a Navajo who respects the dead, but doesn't want to get pulled into the whole white justice system. The thing is is that Kirk went out into the desert five days ago on a photo sh**t, and he hasn't come back. Nobody can find him or his guide.
No, no. Kirk's always going out into the desert for days at a time.
Yeah, well, I'm freaking out, I guess. I'm sorry. Look, I'm sorry. I shouldn't have called. Pretend I didn't call. I'll just, I'll talk to you when Kirk gets back. Sorry.
I mean, it's not like I actually think that the skull is Kirk's. But, I mean, if you could just look at it and just tell me it isn't, then I could stop worrying about him being dead and just be mad at him for being a flaky artist.
You won't get anything out here. We're about a hundred miles past where Jesus lost his sandals.
Yeah. That's why we come out here every year. It's like you stand still, and the whole universe just comes at you.
You know, Kirk was out with a good guide. Our friend Dahni. I mean, he said he'd be back. He said we'd go out for nachos and beer. And this is a man who's serious about his beer.
Hey, Ben. Dr. Brennan is a forensic anthropologist with the Jeffersonian Institution.
Ben, if you could just show Dr. Brennan the skull.
No, no. She wants the plate, Ben. Not the muffin.
Died in the last several days.
Well, it doesn't look like Kirk.
Cause of death?
What?
You can't say that it's Kirk.
You want some tea?
Yeah. Dahni Webber. It's Kirk's guide in the desert.
Dahni's lived here her whole life. You know, Ben says that she knows the desert better than anybody. Look, there's no way that she gets lost or she runs out of water. There's just no way.
No.
Brennan, if you hug me and you be all caring it's because you think Kirk is dead or because he was sleeping with Dahni.
All right. I can buy that.
If you don't mind, um, I'm just gonna head to bed.
Hey.
Dahni. Can I come with you?
I knew it was Kirk. That's why I called you. We have to find out what happened to Dahni.
Kirk didn't do drugs.
I though-I thought that you meant "drug" drugs. The peyote wasn't recreational. Kirk took part in some Native Indian rites.
The peyote has nothing to do with anything.
He's Kirk's friend.
Wayne. Wayne Kellogg. He's an important local artist.
Three weeks a year. I mean, fifteen weeks in total. You think that's crazy.
Kirk's photographs show the world is a more beautiful place than it is. A better place. He made me feel like it was my real home, that I belonged there with him. He's the guy I compare all other guys to. Now he's gone and I feel like I can't even breathe, sweetie. I can't even take a breath. You think it's possible that Dahni's still out there? Could she still be alive?
Well, I wanna help you look for her tomorrow.
Yeah: Dahni was our friend. I have to help find her. Please.
I love the desert. Or I used to.
Yeah, well, you can't trust you eyes out here. Not your eyes alone. You know, Kirk said that if you stood still long enough, that the desert would actually speak to you. Show you some kind of truth.
No. But, he really believed that.
It is Kirk. This is his camera.
No, no, no. Don't. Don't. There could be exposed film in there.
It's crack. We can't let anymore light in. It'll damage the film.
Plus, I can use Kirk's equipment. It's top of the line.
Booth.
I can't believe that you think that I'm a suspect.
You think I m*rder Kirk because he didn't give me enough time?
Ben, Kirk wasn't the one who put limits on our time together. He wanted me to marry him, and he deserved more and better. Please. Ben, I wanna help find Dahni. And there could be evidence on this film. Just let me do what I do better than anybody else.
Thank you.
Well, most of the film was wrecked, but I developed a few usable images.
No, no, because Ben got me to make a couple of prints and then he bolted with them and all the negatives.
Dahni, in the desert. And that's all. I have no idea what he got so excited about.
Out here it means four hours.
There it is.
Yeah, I think so. Different time of day.
You know, I think we wanna go south slightly, maybe southwest.
Yeah, and the angle on the outcropping.
About what?
How far are we from the highway?
Wait a second.
It looks like it, yeah.
Well, I always thought Ben Dawes was a good man. It would take a lot to change my mind.
Is there any way to know?
Dahni went that way.
Yeah.
No. Never. He loved me.
No. He loved me all the time. I was the one who could only manage three weeks a year. I'm afraid that I-I'm just afraid that I don't have a generous heart. I'm afraid that I won't have the chance that I had with Kirk ever again.
How can you be so sure?
I don't know what that means.
You promise?
From your heart?
I'm sure that's it.
Well it's the only rational explanation.
Oh, my God.
You’re joking, right?
Uh, Fisher, just scoop please.
Bren...
We heard right, didn’t we?
Brennan?
The guy is pickled, Sweetie. He can wait. You can’t just announce you’re having a baby and walk away.
Brennan... this is crazy.
Fine. Yes. Absolutely. But you do know how this is supposed to work, right? You get naked together. You devour each other in a passionate frenzy.
Of course that’s ridiculous.
Then why use Booth at all? Why don’t you use Fisher and his discount sperm?
So, it’s because Booth is hot. Now we’re getting somewhere.
Then do this right, sweetie.
Brennan, I...
I tried to talk to Brennan about that whole baby thing. She won’t listen to me.
It’s none of our business.
Oh, that kid is gonna be so cute, though.
I bought it a little onesy today.
So, he was poisoned?
Why, you think Holt’s wife was making a design when she was attacking him?
Okay, well, a circumference... the circle is nine and a half inches.
Yeah, let’s see. Yep, nine and a half inches.
Did you ever think, what if Booth is the perfect father for your child? Not just his stuff, but him. What if you’re throwing away the chance to have a family, a real family, because you’re scared?
Listen, you just said you wanted to do this alone because feelings are ephemeral. So is life, Brennan. We’re here one minute, and then we’re gone the next. You should know that better than anybody. If you keep living trying to protect yourself, nothing is ever gonna touch you.
Lucky thing I’m not a shrink.
A bottle of Bedford Creek sells for over a hundred bucks.
Are you alright, Sweets?
Sure.
Why is it so easy to forget that?
I know.
Go. He shouldn’t be alone before he goes in there, Brennan.
Uh, are we doing experiments on Booth? Because if so, I'd like to help.
So, this is the first time I have ever borrowed anything from the Eisenhower Collection.
No problem, Daisy. I have no intention of letting Santa ruin Christmas.
I don't care.
Okay, here he is. The guy who b*mb Christmas. Can you hand me my sketch pad, so I can get him to the media?
Oh, you looked peeved.
She's mad about the soap.
You didn't actually get permission to recreate the b*mb, did you?
No, no, don't let him turn this around on me.
Hodgins is very authentic when it comes to his reconstructions.
Give me a clue here, guys. What are we looking for?
So, I recreated the scene outside the bank.
Yeah, and this is the cab driver and Georgia Hartmeyer. Now, I factored in everything we know about the b*mb's velocity and direction... including the positions of Booth, Georgia and the cab driver prior to the blast. Okay, here we go.
You see the problem?
Yeah. Now, I can adjust his reaction times, but even when I go superhuman... and I'm talking, like, Maverick and Iceman reaction times... look at where the bone shrapnel lands.
Yeah. Now check out the FCC's frequency allocation chart.
Now, Owen Thiel broadcast his pirate radio signal at 27.4 megahertz. Which is right next to 27.41 megahertz, which is the land mobile frequency this cab driver used.
Yeah, only Owen Thiel b*at him to it.
You know, all those jokes that I made about Santa ruining Christmas, I suck.
You don't think that sometimes we forget those bones out there are people?
Thanks. So you think that we should feel like big, giant losers that we're not spending Christmas with family?
Merry Christmas, Hodgins.
We're in.
Yeah.
Wow...These really are the remains of a child, huh?
Are you kidding? It's Paris! Yeah, I get to draw the Eiffel Tower; not dead children's faces.
Yeah... I don't know if that's a blanket. Um... Looks like it might have been cut from something larger..? Now the stitching suggests that it maybe it's from some kind of garment; like a jacket or a sleeping bag.
It's hard to be sure in a child this young but, the eye orbits are relatively round.
If I was reconstructing this skull, I'd definitely be going Asian.
Hey! Hodgins found some bug evidence.
Again, not a blanket.
No, maybe not the famous one but, this is somebody's missing child.
I do, yes, but... I want it in Paris. Are her eyeballs and brain pan arguing again?
Sweetie! Sweetie, can I get some attention over here?
Right, yes, yes, I know. So, um... What is the deal with Booth? Is it weird seeing him again?
Are there any old... surges... of feelings; anything like that?
Oh! Oh sweetie, I'm so sorry!
Well, a little bit but... that's not what I mean. Don't tell me that you're happy about him finding somebody else!
Did you think about Booth at all when you were away?
Oh, well, there you go! Dreams are very meaningful.
It means you're going to die loveless and alone.
Sweetie, can you please ask me how I am, please?
What I did miss is... my period.
I hope you're hugging me because you're excited about being an aunt.
Yes, you better be, because I haven't even told Hodgins yet.
Okay.
I think it would be good if we had the baby here, in the States.
Yeah, all that wine in France is now totally wasted on me. Tea, please. Why did you suddenly get quiet?
Okay; so you don't mind then.
No. No, I mean about- about staying in the States.
You mean the way you went to Paris for me? No I'm- I'm doing it for the baby.
You know what else I've been realizing too, is that we are actually the glue that holds the whole clattery operation together.
Okay. Alright, we'll finish this conversation when you have your brain back. I think that we should also- we should just keep it between us until past the first trimester, okay?
Oh... If you cry... Don't cry, if you cry then I'm gonna start crying and then...
...making beautiful music for shoppers...
Oh, yeah, yes-
Yes, he does, um- we're- we're gonna go home! So... okay?
I keep asking for a baby "T" that says "The Big Easy."
We're doing what the government didn't. It's the yin yang of government spending.
Is that Booth?
You're hopping the Streetcar Named Desire with Booth? Oh, I love this.
Hey, Brennan?
Why haven't you come home?
Is Booth there socially?
All right, what's going on?
Mm-hmm. It's great. Brennan's fighting zombies in New Orleans and we're stuck here.
Yeah. Hi, sweetie. I'm here.
The extrapolation protocols can't resolve the gradient fluxes in the bone shadings.
Off an X-ray?
You understood that?
I've tried three different computer programs.
Or, better still, you can forget the whole thing and come home.
Bail? For what?
Brennan, the next plane. Okay? The next plane or I'm coming down there to get you myself.
You know what? This whole state of affairs where Brennan just runs around fighting crime? It's stupid. It's nuts. Don't you agree?
Go, go. I'll be...fine.
What is going on with her?
What?
Yeah.
Hmm.
And he k*ll his own daughter.
Honey, even I think you're too strong-minded for that.
Does that prove something?
What's with the blue people?
I beg your pardon.
You boys are not allowed to watch movies on my monitor.
Get out. Out.
Punky Pong is kind of an old-school game but it takes a lot of k*ll. There are a lot of message boards and websites dedicated to it even today. But, I found something on one of them -
Uh, thousands. They put out a retro version on modern platforms like Xbox and it's having this whole resurgence but what I found is -
Well, I guess the purists like it old school. But, sweetie, I think you need to see -
Uh, I think around 20 000 were made and there are probably about 1500 that are still in existence but I think this is something that you really need to see. This is Billy Gabel. He was the Punky Pong World Champion before our m*rder v*ctim claimed the throne.
Uh - well - okay.
This is Steve Rifton's winning tape.
Ugh, I'm not watching it, I'm analyzing it.
Uninterrupted control track which means no tampering.
Mhmm. 3 hours. This perfect game's been downloaded and watched hundreds of thousands of times by expert gaming eyes. Not one anal-retentive, detail-oriented, paranoid geek is calling foul, so...
The, uh, last stage of the game is called 'The k*ll Screen'. Three hours of his life to get to this point - flipping the monkey.
What do you see?
Oh my god.
I'm - I'm... tattooed. On your arm.
What I think is that there's a very large tattoo of me that's indelibly affixed to your skin.
Wait a minute. My dad? My father did that to you?
I am so gonna kick his Texan bad-ass. You - you need to get that removed.
Because we are not together anymore and I don't want you sweating all over my face. And I - you need to get that lasered.
I analyzed the game's chip. Since the programming is from the 80s, it's pretty basic but still...
Right. Which according to you, Steve Rifton was not.
The computer has played a perfect game. So, this is the second time that this machine was played to the perfect game. The first time was Steve Rifton's perfect game.
Yeah, well, that makes sense.
Yeah, what do you - what do you see?
Uh, sweetie, these look identical.
Right. The teeth and the peel. Who would notice that?
Uh, so, this is the same machine that was in the photo.
Steve Rifton cheated. He didn't play the winning game on this machine. What other machine do you think he had access to?
Oh come on, Clark. The divorce papers are signed and the wedding is on again and we are all going to celebrate.
Oh, thanks. That's nice. And thanks for the divorce, I really appreciate it.
Thanks, Cam.
We should look in Jamacia CLARK: No evidence suggests the Caribbean.
I also know this little island off the coast of Maine.
Great. Thank you for doing that.
Hey, I just got off the phone with Brennan. Her friend Wexler's been k*ll in a fire. Scotland Yard wants her to help in the investigation. They're sending the remains to Wexler's lab at Oxford. Brennan's gonna use the video link and the Web to send us crime scene photos and X-rays---whatever we need to help.
Yeah.
How you doin' sweetie?
Send me some high-res photos. I'll see if I can speed things along.
Hey, Brennan, wait. Grayson signed the divorce papers, so the wedding is on again.
So what was the cigarette doing in his hand?
What is that? Like a fish?
Ouch.
What?
Wai-How? Did-I mean, when?
It's okay.
Of course. Why not? We're divorced, so...I mean, I got what I wanted from him so now I guess you did too.
Why should I care? I'm gonna marry you.
Well, you're excited so it must mean something.
You'll have them when they're done. What do you think we're doing? Shirking our responsibility or something?
Cam said we had to.
Look, shrinky, don't got making problems where there aren't any, okay? Although, the next time that you drive somebody to the airport, just let them fly the hell out of Dodge, okay?
I apologize for snapping at you after basically giving you permission to sleep with people.
Hodgins, would you just... HODGINS: I apologize.
Sweets is actually good at his job.
No, actually, I was mad at her. I mean, you don't have sex with someone and then expect everything to be fine.
No, it definitely is not.
Well, for the same reason you aren't fine with him still being in town.
Why do you care that he's still in town?
Obviously you do. If you were 100% certain of me, you wouldn't care. But you do.
You don't trust me.
How can two people who don't trust each other get married?
Yeah, I did too. Two people who don't trust each other shouldn't be together at all.
Don't you?
Yeah.
I don't either. But I know it did happen. I'm gonna-I'm gonna go. You know, all you had to do was trust me.
You're the one that isn't stopping me.
Hey, sweetie, it's me. Hodgins and I broke up, and, uh, I won't really know why until I speak to you. So, I'm just gonna crawl into bed until you get home, and then we can-
Oh, God. You again.
No. No one gets me. I'm nobody's.
Brennan. Hi! No, this is, uh, this is accurate, actually. This is very accurate.
Could you go over there and just wait for me. Over there.
So, you want me to do a-a caricature.
Oh, my god. That looks real.
That-that's real?
m*rder? Brennan, I thought that your job was-was mummies and cavemen? How- how did he die?
Poor thing. Could you, maybe, just put that away now?
But why me? I mean, we've only known each other a month.
I'm in. I'm saving to go back to Paris.
Whatever you're gonna pay me for that skull facial m*rder barf making monstrosity.
Well...No, no, no. The next part, here, shows..
Oh, I'm Angela. Montenegro. I'm an artist. Who are you?
Okay. Okay. So the judge tackles Gemma...
And grabs her ankle.
Okay. Hey, listen. He is very cute.
Could I help? Wow! This place is huge.
Hey! It's Jimmy Neutron. Huh. Boy scientist.
Okay. Uh, it occured to me, when I did the facial reconstruction, that the girls head was slammed.
Yeah, but what if it were some kind of protuberance. Like a bolt or something.
I don't know. I'm an artist. I belong in Paris.
Is he doing that in his head?
I have a little math problem you can't solve. Can God create a bigger rock than he can roll? Think about it.
Hey! Oh, hey. We have to tell you something.
Yes, yeah. You've, you mentioned it.
Zack and I compared manufacturers specs for the Judges trunk to the v*ctim gaping head wound.
What?
We got fired? Wha- is this because you slept with Booth?
Now, I'm never going to make it to Paris.
Really?
What's really scary though, is that there's somebody out there even worse who cut off his head and hands.
Ah, no problemo. Okay, voila.
Hodgins and that Dr. Amazing...
Yeah, they ran an analysis on the contents of the v*ctim's beard.
It was full of stuff.
Okay well, there were needles from the red spruce, which means he was at an altitude higher than 4,300 feet and the leg from a rare bug called the emerald ash borer.
Rare enough that when it's combined with altitude and a not so secret barbeque sauce made by Ollie's BBQ in western Virginia, you're left with a half mile stretch off the 250 highway where the v*ctim had to be shortly before being k*ll.
I'm just inputting the data now.
I hate to be the one to suggest this but this might be the perfect time for Hodgins and the Science Dude to join forces.
Hey, you have to go on the Dude's kiddie show.
Because it's the dream of every kid in this country who likes science even a little bit.
Okay, then do it for your inner child.
Yeah. If I have a daughter I'm going to name her Temperance.
I mean we won't call her that. It's awful. Maybe it'll be her middle name but I want her to love you.
Yes, but not everyone is as willing to look as hard for you inner child as I am and this kid is half Hodgins, remember? Listen, if the Science Dude makes it all the way through this case, helpful or not, I think that you should cut him a break and go on his show.
Yeah and I've lost you.
Oh, okay. Dude! Dude!
You are on. Dazzle! .
Wow, these are not normal, fun children.
Do you have a lot of experience at this kind of work?
Um...
I never told anybody that.
I never told anybody about that.
Oh... Roxie.
Did you talk to him?
And get him to sign the divorce papers.
Or just remind him of who I am and ask him politely.
The tattoo on the second v*ctim's shoulder matches that of Judith Suzanne Evans. Sixteen when she went missing.
Two years, almost to the day.
Shoreline Amusement Park. She was there with her big sister and a couple of her friends.
What makes somebody do that?
Uh, did you talk to my husband?
... and him.
Despite the storm, I want a divorce.
It's darling. He built a house? For me?
Hodgins.
Please.
He should get a grip.
I want a divorce. If I'm gonna shack up with anybody, it's this guy.
This marks the location of Shoreline Amusement Park.
These are the locations of three pet shops the FBI says sold out of snakes in the last week.
Over a hundred.
Yep.
And the last place sold out about an hour ago.
Booth, they don't guess.
This is my office.
The store sits right over the Red Line.
Ms. Kippler.
Look, Hodgins and I haven't really decided what we're gonna do next.
Hodgins?
Why?
Isn't that some kind of conflict of interest? The PI code?
Mm-hmm.
You are a very dedicated investigator.
Hodgins. There's no k.
I'm in love with Hodgins.
Forever, Ms. Kippler.
Look, all I want out of him is a divorce, okay? So if you want to see him again and you want to rub your alabaster all over him and shake his snow globes, be my guest. All I want is the divorce.
And please don't ever say "ew" about Hodgins again.
I scanned the skull and reconstructed a face.
Yeah, I already did that.
Yeah.
Am I going to regret it?
It's just that men sometimes think things are funny that women merely find gross.
The first layer?
The expl*si*n was a two-parter?
I can try.
Yeah, not my department. You're just trying to prolong this conversation.
The fire started approximately here, which means that whatever cast your reverse shadow was positioned here.
Well, I manipulated the images you gave in order to figure out the shape of the silhouette. The dark areas are where there was both blowback residue from the fire and the deposits of oxidized paint left by the expl*si*n. By going in as far as individual pixels, I was able to find the area where there was only paint residue.
Yeah. Given the angles and the distance from the wall, I'd say it's somebody about six feet tall.
Which means whoever this was got out before the actual expl*si*n occurred.
That would require permission, which I deny.
Then what blew up?
I think she meant the expl*si*n part, Zack.
Hey, I'm gonna wait outside.
Hey, how many fingers am I holding up?
That you guys are idiots?
You said you found b*rned silk fibers on Lisa Winkour's throat, right?
You are a man of odd enthusiasms. I'm checking for silk neckties on the men at the party. Look at this.
All the evidence points towards him. But Brennan says with his bad arm, there's no way he could've k*ll Lisa Winokur.
Are you sniffing my hair?
I'm not sure what we're looking for.
He has a pen in his pocket.
Yeah.
Three-inch stiletto heels.
Also, before the fire, she had a beautiful silk wrap on. Afterwards, it's gone.
Wow.
Go.
The skull was badly mangled, so I was only able to construct a partial. But I cross-checked physiological markers against the missing persons database and it yielded three possibilities. Okay. Robert Sanchez, 24... STARRET: Too young.
Michael Minden, former basketball coach, thirty-nine.
That leaves Dr. Seth Elliot, veterinarian, thirty-seven.
H-how do you know about the bull penis stuff?
I got it.
I hate this job, so I'm quitting to go run a gallery in Dubai.
Yeah, we got the subpoena to download Dr. Elliot's PDA records from the server.
Time-stamped the day of his death.
To men. No value to men.
What, that blob?
Who's Gladys?
Dubai, people. I'm going to go sell Inuit art to gazillionaires.
Yeah, it does.
Ick. Ew. Blugh. Alright, here we go. Brennan said that this was the dogfighting ring.
No, you're the genius.
Now, Hodgins is dating each pile of junk according to insect larvae, rat droppings, and the yellowing of the paper. Apparently he's been hoarding stuff for about four years. The oldest stuff is where he fell through the ceiling.
Oh, so he was curating garbage?
Well, that was more than a comment on this case. What's going on Brennan?
So going to Malulu is worth more?
Listen, you're allowed to make life changes without picking a fight with your old life.
So you want to get away from Booth?
Have you talked to him about it?
Is-is he going to go?
You two at opposite ends of the world? No, I don't think so.
Okay, what I did was modify my mass-recognition program--patent pending--to scan the photographic reconstruction of the crime scene to find areas of comparatively less chaos.
Okay, Sweets, you'll understand this. We have a hoarder. We also have a possible intruder. The intruder comes in to look for something.
Well, it does to my program. There. Okay, now somebody, not the v*ctim, rearranged that pile.
So you're going to go towards the window.
Now turn right.
Does anything look strange? Anything missing?
You're giving him the car?
Yeah. So, Brennan's going to Indonesia with Daisy.
Well... Sweets and Daisy--they're gonna break up.
Booth is going to Afghanistan.
You and I will be staying here.
Oh, really? And where are we going?
Oh, for our honeymoon?
No. I do not. Well, everything's changing, huh?
What do you think's gonna happen?
Nnnhnn.
Hey, Sweetie. I hope you find something that just changes the entire notion of what it means to be human.
Hodgie?
I have bl*od splatter patterns on my computer ... if you need to match them to anything you have here.
You okay?
Yeah? Wanna have lunch later?
What is not to like? Go watch Sully play basketball.
How many times have you gone out?
Right. Bumping into each other at the diner does not count as going out.
I don't do glitches. Four, huh? So the question is ... is Sully damaged goods, or is he just very respectful?
Damaged goods, you run away; very respectful, you hang in.
No, Brennan! For once can you just pretend that you're the girl?
Listen. Go to the basketball game. Let him show off for you, and see what happens.
Now you've got it.
Using a 2-D image from a stereo microscope, I was able to create a three dimensional model...
The larynx and the trachea were both punctured by the m*rder w*apon. And that was most logically achieved by the m*rder approaching the v*ctim from behind, putting the choke hold on him, and plunging the m*rder w*apon into his throat.
Wait. You still haven't slept together?
His religious upbringing?
What's wrong with it.
Well, that maybe explains why he hasn't made any moves on you yet. He's insecure.
That would usually be Hodgins' job.
No ... these two are different.
Well they're both ... puddly.
Well, by "puddly", I mean the hyphae are septate and hyaline. And the conidiophores originate from the basal foot cell located on the supporting hyphae and ... terminate in a vesicle.
When the defendant punctured the v*ctim's jugular he nicked himself...
Do what?
You look happy.
Oh, you look really happy. You made the first move.
How was it? I mean, I don't mean "it" ... no, no ... I do! I mean "it".
Anthropologically interesting?
So when they call Sully "Peanut"... BRENNAN: He doesn't like to shower with the other guys because he diverges from the quantifiable morphological norm.
Do you have a nickname, Booth? Something the other cops call you?
Congrats, Brennan.
Could she provide an address?
So he probably stole her prescription pad. Here's his MySpace page, and I have to say? he doesn't look much like a drug dealer. What a waste. Tall, dark, handsome and dead.
Well, let's see. This is the house across the street. Now, if I were a house number, I'd be right about here. I crop it so all we got is the reflection. Reverse and resize. Tweak the contrast, find some edges.
Well, 1880-ish architecture, square bay front... Let's assume the D.C. Area.
Yeah, It places us in one of the two historical districts where they still use those cast iron modified bishop's crook street lamps.
I think you just insulted me. Okay. Now, I do a search for 3294 in those two zip codes. And I come up with... Mad k*ll, babe.
It's an RF proximity card.
Basically, it's a super fancy key card. You wave the card in front of the reader, it logs your info, and the door opens.
Well, if the info on the card isn't too heavily encrypted... I heard you tried to get HODGINS interested in doing an experiment.
Huh.
No. Dupont Circle.
Okay, Here's the surface weather for Tuesday night, when that nor'easter blew the bones into that tree.
Mm-hmm. The bones must have traveled along this vector.
Now, given the duration of the gust and the terrain obstacles, lift off must have happened somewhere between here... and here.
Thanks, Hodgie. This is my "boho, rocker, artist, mid-week, take-a-deep-breath-and-pout" look.
Uh - - I did a facial reconstruction, extrapolating skin tone from hair color. For the record, I hate the guy who k*ll this girl, and I hope to hell he burns in all eternity.
The judge stayed his execution to try him on the new charges.
The, uh, mine v*ctim's dental work identifies her as Sarah Koskoff, Bethesda, Maryland. Disappeared three weeks ago. Sixteen years old.
What are you asking me for?
Sweetie, this is a psycho k*ll, not some loser who wants you to cosign a loan for his Jet Ski.
You know, Epps is acting kind of like a boyfriend.
Well, you obviously fascinate him. He can't have you, and he can't k*ll you. So ... he wants to make you hate yourself.
Let's keep the focus on you and Epps, okay?
Epps knows that you'll never forgive yourself if you don't find Helen Majors before she's m*rder.
You see? This is what he's doing. He's putting pictures in your mind. He's messing with your objectivity.
You have to step back, okay? Let the rest of us deal with the families. You find Helen. That'll keep Epps from ... getting a Jet Ski outta you.
We're sorry for your loss, Mister Hathaway. For both your losses.
Do you recognize this man?
That photograph is current. Here are some drawings that show what he might've looked like 10 years ago.
Thanks for coming.
I know this is disturbing. I find it very upsetting, and I'm ... not married to the man who did it.
I believe you.
I think you'd have to love him very much ... to be willing to overlook what he's done.
The thing is, we're not so sure that it was in the past. For Howard, it's obvious what he likes. Blonde girls.
Men can't hide what they like. For Howard, it's this.
Does Howard ever just look at you - - as though you just feel his eyes adoring you?
He likes blonde girls.
I'm sorry. I have to ask you something ... Have you ever delivered any messages for Howard?
I'm sorry?
Whose mailbox?
When did you deliver the message?
Thank you.
I'm - I have to make a phone call. You understand? But after that, I'll sit with you ... as long as you like.
Got it.
The k*ll picked his v*ctim from a postal route.
What?
Jack.
Hey. Pretend it's me asking, okay? Look, we're just exchanging theories here at work like always. Two substances, right? Put them in the same place at the same time. Either they mean something or they don't.
Booth, do you think you could just ... stop talking, please?
Okay.
What else, Jack?
Tell me.
Well...there was a sandstorm in that area eight days ago. Sustained winds of sixty miles per hour. Gustav about eighty.
Guys? Hello? Id-ing them is not going to be a problem. How many sets of conjoined twins can there be?
I bet I could just go search missing siamese twins and find them in like ten minutes.
I found them Cam: Already? (Angela shows them an animation of the circus, a poster pops up picturing conjoined twins Jenny and Julie van Owen.
Hah!
I found something pretty interesting just by looking at it. you said Jenny was the left-handed twin.
How many can be typed with the right hand?
the point is; Jenny was signed with the right hand while Julie signed the note with the left. This note was obviously not written by them, guys. It's fake.
Vincent provided me with the approximate forces that would take to the cause kissing fractures to the twins' skulls Vincent: Approximately 300 pounds plus square inch, which is by the way the same as a pitbull bite.
Not a likely scenario. No.
Ok. Scenario number one; whiplash.
no?
Alright, scenario number three; resulted seperably by a w*apon.
No actually it's not.
Because the wounds are absolutely symmetrical here. The possibility of an assailant striking them seperately at the exact angle with the exact same force that ain't gonna happen. Okay...well, the heads could've been conked together.
No there was no soft tissue left.
Like a pillow? Oh wait a second...Clown props.
Nice.
What's up with Brennan's eye Hodgins: Eyepatch. It looks very rakish.
Okay, uh, I'm pulling every record we have so far associated with Taffet. Social security numbers, birthdates, bl*od test results.
Got those. I'm using a recursive search algorithim, which analyzes and cross references the data. Since they're related, any inconsistencies can raise a red flag.
You know, he still gets nightmares. Says he wakes up in a sweat.
Yeah. That's a good idea. I'll check it out.
Well, I came up dry. Brennan and Booth are compliling another set but until then, I'm trying to drag Taffet's voice from these ransom tapes.
She used a variable band inversion, so the wave is broken up into hundreds of small sections. Each section scrambled with different frequency sequencing.
Did you?
Well, you were uh, you were sane enough to marry me.
I know. I know.
Well, she's not. Look at me. She's not. Nobody can get between us.
I'm running a numerical sequencing program to see if there's a match with any of our v*ctim. I'm coming up with nothing.
Oh, my god. The number is a GPS location.
Okay, this encryption is a rolling code split band voice inversion. Individual frequencies between the clicks are inverted and recombined. I applied software that decrypts each of the 423 separate segments until the voice becomes clear.
Like to see her explain away that one.
It's Heather Taffet. The frequency and vocal patterns are an exact match when compared to unencrypted recordings of her voice.
I have a bachelor of fine arts from the University of Texas with a minor in computer science. And I've also studied biomedical illustration at American University.
No.
Th-that isn't me. He obviously manipulated the pitch and the timbre of the voice.
No. Those sound waves have an underlying pattern of frequency modulation. Like a fingerprint.
Hodgins.
In jail. Hodgins wanted to wait until this was over so everybody could be happy for us.
No. No, this is - this is love.
He's so small. That's all. Go on with your work. I'm okay.
I'm done.
I have a date that night.
What the hell, it's a party.
What's with the rubber band?
It's an anger management technique, right?
I get that you're a little off-kilter. Mad at the government, conspiracy of dunces, all that. Maybe even furious that you've had to mount a little boy's jawbone inside a box to find out what k*ll him. What I don't get is why going to a banquet makes you angry.
Anger is only fear, turned inwards.
There are twenty surveillance cameras taking stills every two seconds throughout the mall, including access corridors and parking lots. I concentrated on the ones aimed at the public concourse.
Endomorph, ectomorph, mesomorph, that sort of thing. I modified it to scan two dimensional images. In this case, we're looking for body masses roughly congruent with Charlie, Shawn, and David.
There's David.
One of who?
This whole mass recognition program was Brennan's idea. I'm completely normal. Really.
Oh, God.
It's just... these are probably the last pictures of this little... guy alive. Why is he alone? Why isn't anybody with him? Sorry. Max resolution is X-40 by 480 pixels per square inch.
The fewer pixels that make up an image, the more the picture degrades once we zoom in on it. Did that sound too squinty?
Well, I wouldn't bet a date with Colin Farrell on it.
Funny is Will Ferrell, sweetie. Hot is Colin Farrell.
I have one other angle, but our bad guy is still obstructed in it.
I'm not really this person.
I'm not like you. I'm not driven by the need for justice and all that. I'm a good-time girl.
Cracking jokes over m*rder skeletons is not good times.
No it's not. Why?
Honey I... I'm, no offense, I'm really not up for one of your 'it takes a village' anthropology lessons. This is the longest I've ever had a job. That's because of you.
Just let me work on it, okay? I'm an artist. I used to draw naked guys. Now I draw dead guys.
Of course I won't.
I did. The extrapolation protocol got confused by the spread. Hey, you know Hodgins better than anybody else. So why is he so bent out of shape about this banquet?
Because every time someone mentions it, he starts snapping that rubber band around his wrist.
You're roommates.
But you see a lot of each other.
He drives you to work.
The main house?
I can't clear up this image any more than it is. Tell Booth what you told me about living in Hodgins' garage.
How many cars does he have in that garage?
Zack has never seen the main house because the tennis courts and the pond block the view.
Oh my God.
Get this. They are the single biggest donors to the Jeffersonian Institution.
What do you guys even talk about when he drives you to work?
I looked on both cameras. This one offered up more reflective surfaces.
Check this out.
By polarizing the image, the computer can interpret the spaces between the white and the dark gaps and fill in the missing pieces.
When I repolarize the image...
How long have we known each other?
How come you never invited me over to your house?
I thought we were close. All of us. What else don't I know? Is Zack from another planet?
You're rich. You single-handedly own the Cantilever Group. Don't deny, I know.
Zack, Booth.
Why don't you want us to know that you're actually our boss?
Yeah, that's a shame.
Charlie was three feet, four inches tall and weighed fifty-eight pounds.
Shawn Cook is 1.4 meters tall and weighs 31 kilograms.
1.75 meters, 68 kilograms.
Hodgins found no particulates that suggested crushing.
Sorry, sorry. I entered real-world variables, taking into account Charlie's size and the amount of pressure...
...that was required to break Charlie's sternum in the way that it was broken.
86.2 kilograms.
Way too much for either of the Cook kids or Margaret Sanders.
Zack's work consists of removing flesh from corpses. Hodgins dissects bugs that have been eating people's eyeballs.
I draw death masks.
Don't you?
Booth mentioned it to me earlier today.
Okay, I'm ready to start the facial reconstruction. Gross. Wow, this isreally gross. I'm going to come back.
All right, well, I'll send pictures to Booth, see if he can check with local dentists.
Alex Newcomb, 33. The FBI got an ID off his dentals. The dentist has the brother listed as the emergency contact.
Maybe I could help. Why is it that nobody ever says to me, "Gee, Angela, this looks impossible, but maybe you're the person who could solve the problem"?
I've been working on a new program that uses Configuration-bias Monte Carlo method. Here are the bones currently left in the body. Now, there's not much left, but by factoring in rate of decomposition and bone destruction from the hydrofluoric acid, I can attempt to virtually regrow the bone.
Uh-huh.
What, interrogate?
That wouldn't work.
Because what Booth has, you can't learn from baby boy shrink. Booth's brilliant at pretending to be stupider than he actually is most of the time.
Especially around you. Okay, here is what Alex Newcomb's skeleton looked like 12 hours ago.
Well, he knows that you like to be the smart one, so he lets you have that. All right, here's what Alex's bones looked like at the time of his death.
Combing trajectory analysis with force and thrust ratio. This suggests a square-edged blade with an overlying step that was at least 16 centimeters long.
Okay, so maybe you should just let him have the people k*ll part of the job to himself then.
Yeah, or a screw.
Eh, I just program the computer. You're the whiz master who makes the calls. You're welcome. Hey, sweetie? I think you'll find that the m*rder w*apon was a pair of tailor shears.
Why don't you run this information by Booth and see how quickly he comes to the same conclusion?
Uh, Brennan sent all this evidence from England?
And these crime scene photos are mine.
I'll see if there's anything on it.
Oh, my...Oh, my God!
Grayson...
That's the last bit of sugar you're ever gonna get from me. I want my divorce.
Excuse me. I'd like you to meet my husband. My soon-to-be ex-husband.
Listen, uh, I realize that Grayson is very lovely.
But until Grayson hands over signed divorce papers, I don't really need Hodgins seeing everybody gawking at him like he's some kinda god.
Cam. A little help here.
Hodgins?
This is Grayson Barasa. Birimbau.
I told you, Grayson.
Vaguely.
Bells.
No, Hodgins. Literally, bells started ringing. It was nothing cosmic.
It was during the Shark Festival of Bells. What did you expect to happen? A g*n salute?
Yuck it up, laughing boy. Wait until one of your ex-girlfriends comes to visit.
Back to work.
I noticed in the crime scene photos that the backseats of which started me thinking that maybe the v*ctim was transporting something, worth stealing.
Don't make her ask.
More likely a scooter, given the size.
Through the teeming streets of London.
Hey, I've been looking at those tabloid photos of the v*ctim. Now, in a telephoto sh*t, most of the frame is blurry. Only the main subject is in focus.
You see here? These pixels look like they've been altered to appear fuzzy.
No, it was a telephoto lens but it's been doctored to look as though it's over 500 mm when I put it at more like 80.
You see that white sliver?
Yeah, it's a reflection of light, almost as though the photographer was behind glass. And... in Portia's eyes do you see that?
It's a reflection of a house. Do you see where I'm going?
Right. With an 80-millimeter lens. Sweetie...my ex-husband is here with the divorce papers, so I'll fill you in when you get back.
What's going on?
I did.
It was a good-bye kiss.
Hodgins!
Nice, Grayson.
Hey, uh, the paper you sent me turns out to be a letter to Portia Frampton from her mother.
No, it's dated this year.
Uh, the entire body of the letter is indecipherable. The date and the salutation and the signature are clear, though.
Here we go.
Just to be clear, are you a man or a boy for the purposes of this conversation?
Lucky for you, I, uh, I enjoy a convoluted story with my hot beverage.
Ah. He had a little gay crush on you.
Mhmm.
But I'm guessing that you have a different point to the story, like maybe I'm the party wagon.
Which brings us back to the point that all men are idiots.
Uh. Uh, huh.
Hey, Hodgins...
Can't have you punching my ex-husbands.
Deal. Look, it's simple. My heart isn't yours to claim. It's mine to give away.
Idiot, you do get my heart.
At last. A glimmer of understanding.
Yeah.
Oh my god. I'm getting flashbacks to braces and stirrup pants and a really, really bad side ponytail.
Right. He was one of THOSE guys. Well, this guy certainly wasn't hanging out with the cheerleaders but I bet he had some love notes stashed away in his Space Balls binder.
Beta. St. Elmo's Fire.
One yearbook. Foothill High School. 1987.
"Have a great summer. Don't ever change." Remember those days?
I was all about Barbie.
Floppy disk the size of a dinner plate.
I can try. A hockey skate? And it looks like it's signed.
A can of new Coke.
And a pocket watch.
Computer disk and a pocket watch. What was our little geek into.
This little darling, is a Commodore Amiga with a Motorola 6800 chip set using a homemade operation system. I got it from the computer exhibit on the 3rd floor. I used to have this exact computer.
Hey. Look at that.
This is like a primitive Doom.
So Roger was way ahead of his time.
And money is always a good motive for m*rder.
Hey, check this out. This is weird, right?
Yeah, but this is the "Hall of Fame" section. It's usually, "Best Smile" and "Most Likely to Succeed." This is "Most Likely to Get Head Stuck Up Own Ass" and "Best Rack" and "Most Likely to die of VD."
Yup. Look at this. "Brought to you by Gruff & Grim."
Mhmm.
Track team, vice president of the Student Council, runner up for Mr. Popularity.
It's the type, sweetie. He's Mr. Second Best. It's kind of like when you want Brad Pitt and you get Matthew McConaughey.
Distinct facial features, wide-set eyes, asymmetrical nostrils.
It's nothing like his dad. Oh, boy.
Oh, boy. Twenty years ago, Terry Stinson finds out that Roger Dillon has sex with his girlfriend.
Um, ew.
I finished the sketch of the woman. She was pregnant, starting over in a new country, so I gave her a smile, made her look hopeful.
Interesting or horrible? Because sometimes, it's the same thing with you.
So father and daughter buried next to each other, right? Then dug up. But then the father is reburied, why?
He joins a gang and then k*ll her.
How was he m*rder?
So, he survives being sh*t, but then he dies of cancer?
Yeah.
You b*at up a gang leader?
You did. You got into a fight with a gangbanger.
The guy's a k*ll, Brennan.
Look, I know you're all about self-reliance and fighting your own battles and standing up for yourself, but now, as your friend, and knowing how much you hate psychology here, you need therapy.
With who?
I know it's psychology again, but you said "him", like one guy.
Yeah, I remember, I tried to get you to go to Italy with me.
For how long?
What is made out of quarter-sawn cumuru?
Your top three suspects are Senator Corman, 6'1", Logan Corman, 5'10" and Hector Santiago, 5'6".
The bed is a California king with seven-foot posts.
Given their relative heights, the angle of impact doesn't match. Her skull connects well below where you found the traces of bl*od.
Well, it's high enough, but her head struck the outside of the post.
7'8". Somebody you'd notice around the house.
What do you mean? Like, go nonhuman?
I guess falling.
But it doesn't explain the damage done to her skull.
206 pounds per square inch, which means she would've had to have fallen from a height of...it's no good.
You mean somebody pulled her off?
This is nice of you, not many people would pay for a funeral like this.
Aren't you leaving for El Salvador tonight?
You're late for a funeral, of course you're in trouble.
Okay. I photographed each piece of the silicone elastomer and I used the photos to reassemble a virtual prosthetic.
Yeah. Well, hopefully by looking at the image under different color filters we can at least get some of the digits. You know, I have to say. This whole "finding I.D. by testicle" definitely b*at facial reconstructions.
Well, it isn't' to scale, Cam.
Okay, I got the serial number for you.
It's pretty big.
Okay, boys, I'll bite. Who is John Gochnaur?
Well, is that bad?
I wouldn't be so sure about that.
See how this top edge curves? Now, if the curved continued - and then down here, before it got worn away in the washer - there was a point..
Exactly.
Well, according to my dad, guitarists have this thing about their picks: different materials make different sounds.
My dad uses a Nicaraguan Cordoba. Some guys use tortoise shells or uh, a sharks tooth.
Erik Dalton.
And Dalton isn't exactly for keeping his cool. Check out this video from a concert in Australia, two years ago.
Now, the trick is to separate out those points of trauma where the radiating micro-fractures just keep going because there were no earlier fractures to cross paths with.
Yeah.
Well, it's baseball season, sweetie. This is when boys like to hit balls with sticks when the snow melts. I don't know why.
I'm making him 3- D scans so he can focus on all the un-remodeled fractures.
Yeah and I cleaned up the edges and these are the shapes that caused the injuries.
Hmm. Which means that Cole wasn't k*ll there.
Well, you know, this could be a tailpiece.
And-and that could be a tremolo arm, which means that those lines are from strings.
Yeah, but that shape. I mean, the bottom is too curved to be a Tele or a Strat, but...it's not an SG because the tailpiece wraps around and then there's the distance to the jack plate. You know, I think we're looking for a '57 Gibson Les Paul.
Well, it's not like I know every guitar, but I do know the expensive ones.
I'd say our v*ctim was b*at to death by about a quarter of a million dollars.
Oh, wow. This is gorgeous. I wish my dad was here.
Okay, um... I'm not going to watch that.
I scanned the skull, and I factored in age and build.
No, not yet. I'm, um-how can I put this-depoopifying the fragments now to piece together some kind of image.
Let me add the fatty tissue and his new, expensive teeth. Hmm, he does look familiar.
Oh, my God.
Okay, that girl's the bait they use to lure the cheaters.
I managed to get some usable pieces of that photo. Just fragments, but it's a start.
I used an infrared camera and I excluded all the visible light. If I had to take a guess, I'd say the mystery couple were knocking boots.
I've done that. I miss college.
You really got to learn some girl talk, sweetie.
Bloodshot eyes and wood in a pill. Party time.
Yeah.
Hey. So...it takes over two hours for this computer to render each new image, but this last pass gave us a little more detail in that photograph.
It's a tramp stamp of some kind.
Anyway, I was starting to enhance the resolution when Sweets brought me the videos.
Okay, I sampled Bill's voice and I removed all the extraneous noise.
And there you have it. You are busted, Billy.
Well, Holly had access to the microphone.
The print was e-mailed to somebody.
I knew it was a gator. Brennan told me it was a gator. And yet wow!
Look at all these teeth.
"Step away, please?" Just because you have a doctorate now does not mean I won't use you as a swizzle stick.
Yummy!
Hey, I liked that song.
Florida FBI just beamed over names of recent missing persons.
What?
Meaning Judy was r*ped.
No more rough college sex?
Monty has made millions off of this site.
I get it, Zack. Hey.
Jewelry?
Not eat, drink. Golden Rod.
It's this 100 proof cinnamon schnapps that we drank in college. It's infused with real gold flakes. Purely for decadent sake.
Eh, it's way worse coming up. I can tell you that.
And I remembered something.
Now granted there are plenty of bars that carry this stuff.
Oh... Hi. I'm sorry, how do you know me?
And you followed me here?
I'm sorry Mr. Dowd. There's nothing I can tell you.
The FBI told you about that?
I really can't discuss the case.
At this point, Mr. Dowd, there are a lot of suspects.
No. No, of course not. I find him repulsive.
I'm very sorry about your daughter, Mr. Dowd. There's nothing I can say.
Hey, I think that you might have the wrong man.
I made mistake, Brennan.
I loaded the v*ctim's x-ray into the simulation. Now looking at the fracture lines, the computer should be able to determine the weight of the car that ran him over.
According to this, the car would've weighed approximately 3700 pounds, which gives us, 152 possible vehicles.
I think she's with Booth. Why?
What?! How did that happen?
Oh, that stinks. I like Wendell.
Well, how did he react?
Zipo. On my end.
Yess. I do. Yes. You are something, Wendell. You really are.
p*ssy Galore? That's never going to happen.
Boys and their spy fantasies.
We can't be excited to see you, Wendell?
Hey, have you ever thought of starting a scholarship? You have a lot of money now.
No! No. But it's Wendell. He grew up with nothing. He worked his whole life for this.
But who k*ll James Bond?
And what's in the briefcase?
I hate to break it to you, Jack. But you're the guy who studies bugs, slime and poop. It's hardly assassination worthy.
I'm not going to touch that one.
I packed my lunch! You guys are gonna have to try-
Heeeyy.
Yeah, well like there's an acceptable protocol for crushing someone's soul. Hey, wait a second. This is weird. This image file is way bigger than it should be. Which either means there is some sort of compression in there or-
Look at all that code. Maybe he wasn't breaking up with her at all.
Uh, they're in the bone room. Is everything okay?
Wai-wait, so we only have-
Um. I'm still trying to decode the image. It seems that most of the date is centered in his hand. It could be a map of some kind.
I was right, it's a map. Keep your eye on his hand. He wasn't waving goodbye. He was telling Mandy where he hid his briefcase.
I'm gonna miss you, Wendell. Stay safe, okay?
Four years ago Jared's girlfriend was a hooker?
And now she teaches grade school?
You know, it really would have been better if Booth never ran her record.
No, sweetie; he's rationalizing, which makes what he did irrational because he's rationalizing that Jared cannot make rational decisions for himself. You do the same thing all the time. Maybe that's what he learned from you.
Now, wait a second... Is Booth going to tell Jared about this?
What if Jared and this woman are really in love? Booth could ruin everything.
Yeah, well, this is going to be one hell of a test case.
Oh, right. And yet, who do you turn to when you need pretty pictures?
Now, the v*ctim was tossed into the creek bed where his body quickly decomposed.
Three of them.
I'm trying to match the physical characteristics of our leprechaun to any professional wrestlers on the wrestling circuit.
Well, those were mostly beautiful boys wrestling around, all oiled up and naked.
Then it seems our leading contender is the iron leprechaun. So it was a leprechaun after all.
Thank you. Oh no, well this says that he's wrestling tonight.
Yeah believe me, I'm as surprised about it as you are.
So my psychic says that Brennan and Booth are linked in a very profound way. In order to eat that thing you're gonna have to dislocate your jaw, like an articulated python.
He's not as happy-go-lucky as he used to be. It's like he's sort of sad.
Booth confronted his mortality plenty of times. I think that that dream he had, about him and Brennan being married, I think that he sort of misses that dream. It's like he's homesick for that place and those people.
So do you, right?
No, you're a chef.
You know, you're really gonna have to learn to enjoy things the way that they are.
Yeah, well, now he's really not.
Looks like it was a pretty bad one.
It's bad enough going to the gym without getting yelled at by a watch.
Hey, odontology got a match.
Tommy Sour. He was reported missing two weeks ago.
Wow. That was great! That was great!
Oh, no, I'm just doing my... my...
Of course!
These are the v*ctim's clothes?
And you'd like me to do what with them?
Falling from an airplane isn't enough?
Slashes.
You mean before he fell to Earth?
Cal Howard's skeleton before...and after he fell to Earth.
His clothing before...and after he fell to Earth.
If I make the clothing translucent, we can see that some of the clothing damage lines up with the trauma to his skeleton.
The guy was chopped.
Yeah. Clothing damage, flesh wounds.
Wow. Fancy.
What's the occasion?
Hey do you aliens use any w*apon resembling a...
No mukluks. Got it.
The pattern is consistent with sharp force trauma from a curved blade approximately sixty-five millimeters thick.
And if I am late for dinner, I will find whatever it is and I will hit you with it.
We couldn't figure out in what order. It's almost as though it was simultaneous.
But Howard exits the plane in flight. The propeller is ahead of him and pulling away. How could he come into contact with it?
Scratch one item off the menu tonight.
Which you do not need me for.
What do you mean?
You didn't need to do all of this to get me in a loving mood.
Oh my god.
Are you breaking up with me?
I don't know. Because you're...I'm not thinking straight. Go ahead.
Mm-hmm.
I'm sorry. Please. Go ahead.
Dear man. Good heart. No.
I don't know, Hodgins. If I knew, I would tell you. But when you ask me, I have to have this...this feeling. It has to be...I'll know it when it happens, and I hope you won't stop trying.
I'm sorry. I hope that you choose laugh.
I don't either. Look, let's just finish the dessert and go back to your place and make love, and maybe it'll come to me.
I said maybe.
More than you know.
Alright. Her height makes no sense and her spine length is..wacky.
Zack's Jane Doe. He said that you okay'd the tissue markers
Alright, fine. Sweetie. I'll turn it off.
This.. totally freaked her out.
Alright. What's going on.
What is it?
You said you had a giant problem.
Which one is that?
Hodgins. What's the giant problem.
Brennan's parents disappeared in December of 1991.
Oh, god. This IS giant.
Rialto Theater. 9pm showing of "The Fugitive". September 22, 1993.
Either way, it dates the burial.
Sweetie...
Maybe it is.
You alright?
Okay. What people?
That's a little vague there, Booth.
When it comes to men?
Except "dead" means no more hope.
You don't know that. Look. You finally got to slap Russ. You've been wanting to do that for years.
Did you "Polo"?
So you describe someone to me and I draw them. That's the drill.
I don't know yet. Booth put us together so I could charm you into telling me the truth.
You know, your sister is my best friend, so when she says you can't be trusted, I trust her.
Russ, she loves you. It'd be easier if she hated you. Hate is a lot easier to deal with than love. Especially, disappointed love.
What promise?
Around that time, when Kyle became Russ..Maybe you saw someone. Maybe you saw someone who scared you? Someone who scared you because you had instincts. The instincts of a frightened kid. Was there someone like that?
Well, when you're ready, you'll describe that man to me.
What if you had a face?
Somebody your father pointed out to Russ when he was seven. Somebody he's still afraid of.
You know what? Sometimes, he is just - Whew. What?
It suggests a blow from the front that grazed the skull.
No, the size is wrong. Too small. The w*apon was actually chasing the skull when it landed. I believe that the v*ctim was pulled away at the last second so that most of the force was lost leaving only the slightest impression.
We went through them to see if any of them match the mark on your mother's skull.
Okay, look, just to be clear, I asked you out for a drink to talk, not because I'm desperate for male company.
Vodka up, please. And my grandson here will have another of whatever that is.
I feel like sex.
Sex is what I feel like. Now, I could jump Hodgins, but doesn't seem fair somehow. Do you agree?
Oh, I hate it when shrinks do that.
Look, I've been alone now for quite a while, which is not like me.
It's been, like, six weeks.
Long time.
The longest I've gone without since I lost my virginity. At age 16.
Which is the normal age.
I'm not promiscuous, Sweets. I don't sleep with just anybody. I do require an emotional connection. Spiritual, actually.
It's spiritual to me. And fun, of course. Who doesn't like sex, right?
You're right.
I have been protecting myself. Without the risk of pain, there can be no possibility of pleasure or joy or love.
No.
I am done protecting myself. I'm ready to move on. You're good.
You really are.
To love, huh? And joy. And sex!
Hey, have you been seeing anybody?
I haven't.
But I'm going to start.
Sweets agrees that it's time.
We shouldn't fear putting our hearts out there.
Roxie?
Roxie!
My God...
She said they were close.
I don't think so.
Because Roxie's an old friend and she'd have told me.
Yes, Roxie is gay. At least she was when we were together.
Yes.
No, I have firsthand knowledge.
No, we were together, for over a year.
No. And she would never k*ll anybody.
She hasn't changed.
Roxie never cared about money. I thought that you didn't speculate.
We still don't even know that it was m*rder. Thorne wrote about the need to become one with his work. He was ill. The logical signs point to su1c1de, don't they?
I have work to do. Okay?
Roxie, these are wonderful.
What does Helen say?
That's great. When was your last show?
I can't talk to you about an ongoing m*rder investigation.
That could jack up the price of your work, right? Sorry. Roxie...
Why didn't you sell this?
I remember sitting for this.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God. I have to go.
I know how to prove that Geoffrey Thorne committed su1c1de.
This type of device can be used to scan boxcars, shipping containers, anything metal where items can be hidden.
Every crease and fold, yeah.
Then, I'll recalibrate and get a digital rendering of the bones inside, which I can enhance.
Factoring in the pounds per square inch of force exerted by the car crusher.
I'll make a note.
Okay, take a look at this. Here we have our car, right?
Daisy provided me with the approximate tensile strength of each of Geoffrey's bones, plugged in the bone fragments' final positions, and based on those, correlated each injury as the body was moved through the car as it was crushed.
His bones sustained 88 fractures, all of which can be explained by the crushing in the car.
Most likely, yeah.
Um... this run included the last of the data. Oh, no.
It wasn't supposed to be this way. I wanted to prove it wasn't m*rder.
Am I under arrest?
That's Geoffrey Thorne's big rival, huh? He's a forger?
Yeah, two years in prison. Forging Francis Bacon, Lucien Freud. Must be pretty good.
Thanks, Booth.
So, does it freak you out?
You know, that Roxie and I were a couple.
I'm surprised.
No, I just...
And...?
Right.
Yeah. So, you brought me along. What can I do to help you?
I'm not positive I can do both.
Hey, Booth.
The brush strokes on this painting match the brush strokes on Thorne's car sculptures.
I didn't say these brush strokes are like the ones on the car sculptures. I'm saying that they are the same brush strokes.
Brush strokes are like fingerprints. You can't fake them. DeLuca here is the guy who painted Geoffrey Thorne's car sculptures.
I'm positive.
Oh, so good--cuff him.
You're kidding.
Is that Geoffrey Thorne?
I honestly didn't think it would be m*rder.
Only you would find that comforting. Booth is questioning DeLuca again. He seems to have a motive.
Yeah.
It wasn't Roxie.
No.
I do still have feelings for her.
We had a very intense relationship in college, and she fell in love with me-- way in love with me. When I broke it off, she was really hurt.
This was worse than Hodgins. This was, "I'm gonna run away to Europe and stop being an artist" hurt.
That's how I got into this whole mess in the first place.
I know what you meant. I'm just...
Thanks, Brennan. How long is it gonna take you to identify the w*apon?
No, that was about Hodgins. This is about Roxie.
What was that about quieter?
So, you're saying that this is all rebound?
No. You don't understand love, Sweets.
You have this bourgeois notion...
...that in order for love to be real it has to be permanent. Nothing is permanent. That's just a fact. We move in and out of loving other people, but that doesn't make the love any less real.
I have, actually. Many times. Fine.
Nice try. But no. Actually, I commit to every person I love.
Look, you said that, without the possibility of pain, there can be no joy, no real love.
Look... I don't want to hurt Roxie again.
Okay. And what if she doesn't?
Hey, Roxie.
Well, you have money, and you have a studio. I think what you should do is your own art, full time.
No. Not for a second.
Because we... we really knew each other once and I don't think that... you've changed much since then.
Uh, I don't, I don't know, Roxie. Um... maybe I have. But I'm not, I'm-- I haven't changed...
Ohhh.
Booth has a lion heart!
Oh, Booth was in a coma. Brennan read him the book she was writing. When Booth woke up, he thought that they had a whole different life together. He thought that they were married. He thought that for days.
Underneath the icy exterior b*at a very warm heart.
That's death.
Hey, Brennan. Hey Booth.
Listen guys, there are a bunch of bodies buried under the Taversham fountain.
Avalon told me.
That's interesting because she says that you two were linked in a very profound and spiritual manner.
Oh really, well she also says that in your weirdo alternate shared life experience thing that Brennan was pregnant. It's odd that neither of you mentioned that.
Oh my god. This is like climbing down into a grave here.
Yeah, a pit full of mass m*rder v*ctim. What's not to love...
Sweetie, does the fact that Avalon was right about these bodies make you rethink her abilities?
Until now.
Awkward. Awkward, awkward, very awkward.
The casing on the minidisk that you found at the dig was cracked so there was damage. I did what I could but I got this one frame off the corrupted file.
This isn't the awkward part yet.
I figure you have twelve bodies and this vehicle holds between twelve and fifteen, so--
Now comes the awkward part.
This isn't Avalon. This is the facial reconstruction of the first fountain skull.
Avalon told me she had no family.
Yeah it's just you'd think that was something that would show up in the cards.
Well then how did the cards tell her where her sister was buried?
"Oh, hello Angela, you look so pretty today." Well thank you Booth, and hello to you too.
Harbingers of a New Day.
Yes, sir, on my way, you bet.
This is Tom Fargood. El supremo. He sold places in a secret undersea facility he called Harbinger.
A secret site. In French Polynesia.
Look at this.
No, that's her sister.
Because... that is Avalon.
The man with the hole in his skull.
My 3D imaging suggests that a shaft sh*t from a spear g*n through the soft palate would've caused the wound.
Well is it poisonous?
That's antifreeze.
Nobody does that but you.
That only you care? Yeah.
I'm pulling up websites containing the words Harbinger, utopia, undersea, and MCS and running them through my facial recognition program.
What, so you think these keywords won't work?
By the time we finish a more general search, you'll actually have to shave.
Sick of the world, of course! You know who you're referring to.
That's not literal enough Sweets. You're talking about old people who've nobody else to turn to.
Who's that with Zach?
Ooooohhhhh.
Me? Yeah, yeah, A three dimensional model of an Etruscan burial crypt.
You?
Mmmm Hmmm. God! Etruscan burial crypts are so boring!
A m*rder investigation. Brennan and Booth are out front right now waiting for Zach.
Oh, she really bolted, doesn't look good for Zach.
Are you okay honey?
You really do hate slime profiles. Have a little compassion!
Did you tell Naomi that?
You know Hodgins is right. Let's not keep Booth waiting. Somebody is decomposing as we speak.
I'm getting more of a Hispanic vibe.
Catholic boy.
What is that?
That would set a boy apart from the others, being deaf.
I'll get X-Rays and 3D imaging of the entire skeleton.
It proves the rope left in the branch where Nestor was hanging are too deep for his weight.
You put a high sensitive adolescent in a high-pressure prep school add social alienation cultural differences pressure from high achieving parents...could be su1c1de.
I'm a big believer in instinct.
You have no idea of how open minded I can be.
Don't... Don't smell that.
I can smell it from here.
That's really gross.
Swan dive, cannon ball, cherry b*mb... No matter how he jumps, the hyoid does not break.
We figure an added strain of 90 kilos to snap the hyoid.
I'm out of alternative scenarios to explain this hyoid break.
You mean actually in Paleontology.
You know what Zach? I'm thinking this is more of a guy, guy conversation.
I'm applying a timeline and running in fast-forward. This will show it in measure time.
A hundred and ninety six point three hours just over 8 days.
Honey, did you ever just believe something, despite the evidence, just know it was true?
You know or you hope it's true?
Look at this face. He did not k*ll himself.
I can do that.
Okay this is not from the DVD it's a quick snippet that was on Nestor's hard drive. Somebody tried to erase it but Zach and I got some of it back.
A little sea horse? C'mon, what kind of blackmailer does that? It's sweet. It's a clueless kid in love.
That cynicism you affect Booth it's your way of hiding your deeply romantic nature.
I didn't see it either.
Wait, that girl knew that camera was there. She looked right at it.
When you're with someone the gymnastics aren't what matter. It's who you are. It's in your intentions and how much you care about the other person.
Alright, I'm going to let you in on a secret. This is a female secret. Go to Naomi and tell her you don't know anything about lovemaking...sex yeah ...lovemaking you're a blank slate. You'll do anything she wants if she just introduces you to the secrets of love. She'll be more interested in that then if you were the most imaginative lover on the planet Zach: That is totally counter intuitive.
Just do it Z-man. Reap the benefits of my sexual wisdom.
I'm late...
This board is broken. The arrivals board is not working. Uh, did anybody meet the flight from Guatemala? Aviateca airlines? What gate? Yeah, right. I'm late.
Excuse me, uh, you have a computer glitch at the arrivals board.
Hello! Sir, excuse me, yoo-hoo...
Great.
Yeah. Hi. The flight from Guatemala?
Sweeeeetie. Yes, I did. Welcome home. Are you exhausted? Was Guatemala awful? Was it horribly backward?
Flash them for any fun reasons?
You know, diving in a pit of cadavers is no way to handle a messy break up.
Then you were not doing the right things.
Attack! Security! Hello!?! Who runs this airport? Kick his ass sweetie!
Oh, little misunderstanding here.
Can I, as the only normal person in this room, say, Ew?
The book.
We're out of the book now, we're back in real life...
Who you captured perfectly, is Booth. Buttoned down but buckets of sexual confidence which, uhhh, I for one would love to tap.
Paper?
Good. I prefer holographs, they don't stink.
This computer program, which I designed, patent pending, accepts a full array of digital input, processes it and then projects it as a three dimensional holographic image.
Brennan reassembled the skull and applied tissue markers.
And.... We have our v*ctim.
Lenny Kravitz or Vanessa Williams?
Wait, is that who I think it is?
You seem happy to me.
Want to get a drink? Non-topical application. Glug, glug, Woo hoo! Come on Sweetie...
People like you.
Okay, interesting leap from people to men but I'm sure it means nothing.
Who said that.
Honey, you ever think you come off kind of distant because you connect too much?
I know but, people are mostly soft.
Yeah... You want some advice?
Offer up a little bit of yourself every once and awhile. Just... tell somebody something you're not completely certain you want them to know.
Well, you know I give great advice.
This is a rough composite but, you get the idea.
And I just completed this rendering. The defensive wounds to the bones of her hands suggest that it wasn't until the third or the fourth penetration that....
..that Cleo stopped fighting back.
Cleo never saw the first stab coming, it didn't arise out of an argument. Why smash Cleo's face, why whittle away her finger tips, remove her clothing and her jewelry?
Military cemetery, military kn*fe implicate her own father. More misdirection.
You must know about her family. Both parents vanish when she's fifteen? Probably counts as the real world.
Yeah. Brennan figures that if maybe somebody like her had been there...
What's your hurry?
She didn't actually say where she was going, did she?
Is the FBI going to lay charges against Brennan?
Yeah, or bury someone else.
Yeah, and this place is always so sunny. Here's our v*ctim.
I had to make a choice, so, I chose kind.
It's 7.30, Hodgins.
You said you were going to be finished in a minute. That was an hour ago.
I love it when you talk about smelting.
What?
No, we don't.
I have my own place, Jack. I need my place.
We were, uh, just...
Yeah, me too.
Yeah, that sounds good.
Shouldn't Brennan be here with you instead of me?
Trouble in paradise?
Did you two sleep together?
Okay. I...
It's just that... this feels like a couples' thing. And now that Sully is gone...
Yeah. I think I can manage that.
FBI's trying to track the jewellery to pawn shops and fences. I'm checking online auction sites. This stuff could net a fortune.
Apparently. Hey, have you noticed anything going on between Brennan and Booth?
There's tension. Ever since Brennan let Sully sail off into the sunset without her.
Hodgins.
You would be the only one that would feel them.
We'll discuss it at lunch.
So is this really Cleopatra's bed?
Nice try.
Mm-hmm.
I have a lease.
We only have fifteen more minutes.
Yeah, well, guess what? I got distracted.
Yeah, his robes were worth a fortune.
Well that officially looks the least like a m*rder w*apon than any m*rder w*apon I've seen.
Could it have been accidental?
So things are alright?
It wasn't?
And you believe that?
Right.
Mmm. Maybe I should talk to this guy.
Hodgins asked me to move in with him, but I'm... I'm not sure. I mean, what's the problem? Hodgins is perfect. I'm nuts about him.
No, it's actually my boyfriend... asked me to move in with him, and I need to know if I should or not.
Well, Brennan says that you are the only psychological type who's ever made any sense to her.
Over half of his closet is filled with my things.
Uh, no. It doth not.
He is good.
You know, the accent makes everything that you say sound really smart. "Stop-gap".
Look at that. You fixed them too.
Alright, listen up, Monty Python. You got it right with Hodgins and I, that's fine. But we both know that you are full of it on the other thing.
Brennan didn't run off with Sully because she cannot live a life without focus. She stayed because of Booth.
You stand by the FBI. Your first priority is to get agents back into the field, solving m*rder.
He also says "journeys end in lovers meeting, every wise man's son doth know."
You betcha. Monty.
Uh, Agent Booth?
This is the pediatric cancer floor of the hospital.
Right. Well, uh, what I'm about to show Deputy Director Cullen is kinda gruesome .
Are you sure it's all right for me to do this here?
Yeah. It's not nice to fool Mother Nature.
Can I see your drawings? Wow. These are beautiful.
Yeah. There's...uh...There's a lot of Rousseau in Paris. Have you ever been to the Louvre?
Well, you've got a great eye.
Can I see what you're working on?
Hey, check this out.
Amy Cullen.
No. I ran it through the digitizer. She's a good kid. I wanted to show her that computers don't have to be the enemy.
Ah, I'll take that as a compliment.
She never even had a chance.
It's pretty excellent, huh?
Uh huh.
Most of the time I restore and enhance old bones, so this is a lot more fun.
Yeah. Yeah, sometimes they do.
It's the most beautiful place you'll ever see.
You'll go there yourself. I know you will.
Thanks.
You will, just give it time.
Amy, you've been through more than most people.
I really think it's best for you to stay positive.
With your art? Yeah. Absolutely.
Ah. Well, that totally goes without saying. What's his name?
Is he cute?
Did you ask him out?
Why? Look, you haven't asked my advice so I'm just gonna give it to you, ok? Just have fun. You know, every once in awhile, you...you might meet somebody who's worth it.
Then you've got something else to paint about.
That makes 13, including Amy and the DeMarco woman.
I scanned in the X-rays of all of the graft recipients as well as the pieces from the exhumed bodies.
Think of it as sculpting from the inside out. The more that I know about our donor, the better I can guess what he might have looked like.
Guys, meet Donor X...the man who caused all this pain .
So where does that leave Amy?
Well, that is perfect .
Hey.
Yeah... No, No I'm not. Look, we can solve hundred-year-old crimes...we can, we can track down serial k*ll and identify people when nothing is left of them but sludge. So, why can't we help a 15-year-old girl? All she wants to do is fall in love and visit the Louvre.
What do you mean?
Well, what about love? What do you have to say about love?
Ok. Now tell me what you see. .
Welcome to the Louvre.
You're welcome. So, what do you think?
Don't say anything, you don't have to.
Hey, I got an ID on our v*ctim.
Well, we've found out otherwise. Neal Lowery. Turns out Neal's the only missing guy with horns. Go figure.
Havenhurst Sanitarium, where he's being treated for schizophrenia.
Yeah, no, I know the drill. I assisted an art therapist in college. You can take one look at Van Gough's "Starry Night" with the dark blues and the violent brush strokes? It's no wonder he k*ll himself after painting it. But Neviah's work seems conflicted. The central image is straight out of Hieronymus Bosch, but the background is full of warm and vibrant colors. And her brushstrokes are calm. There's no turmoil or rage in her work.
Hold on. This is weird. The topography of the paint is unusually thick right here. This could mean that there's something underneath the image. Sometimes when an artist bowdlerizes their own work, infrared refrectography can show us what's under the paint.
He's a demon.
I don't think you need Jung to figure this one out.
These are the electrical plans for the retrofit that was completed at Havenhurst 15 years ago.
Well I'm scanning the original plans. And they're from 1908. Okay. So on the original blueprints there was a fourwire 600 volt transformer in the basement. The southwest corner of the basement where the old generator is installed was sealed off.
Yeah, but they'd need those in case of a fire.
I ran a simulation of the electrocution based on the current that was generated by the equipment at Havenhurst.
Yeah I know. Based on Neal's age and weight plus the clothes he was wearing, that current would've thrown him clear. He should have survived.
Okay, give me a second.
Wow, listen to you, all "street".
The guy is crazy, Sweets.
Mm-hmm.
Okay, lemme get in closer.
Yeah, but still, it must have been a left-handed person that tied the knot. Only, he or she must have been facing the v*ctim.
I am ready to run the simulation with the boots removed from the equation.
I say we're looking for somebody left-handed.
Okay. Carly Victor, twenty-nine. Carly Victor?!
Yeah, she's that celebrity chef.
All right, this is her MySpace page.
Yeah. It's like, impossible to get into.
You too?
It's friends, different communities she's joined...blogs, her husband, cooking videos...
Are you okay, honey?
Yeah. Jealous chefs, vicious critics, fans that were a little too in love with her... fame is creepy.
Huh. They do deal with knives and fire and food. It's pretty sexy.
Mmhmm.
Oh, suddenly I am starving...
We were working.
Yeah, I found out how to make braised beef, I found out that Carly loved sushi, I found out that...
True.
So that narrows it down. To...every restaurant in the area.
Carly's blog mentions an old friend... who's the chef at a sushi restaurant.
And when we link to his page...
Yeah. And his kn*fe.
I fed the measurements of the knives into the computer. Angles of the blades, thickness... and compared it to the injuries we found on the bones.
No. But, we do have one match. This kn*fe
So he's not the m*rder. We can still eat at the restaurant. What? Booth said the toro was fantastic.
He loves it.
What if I want to say yes?
Sometimes your brain just shuts off, because you're... in love.
Haven't you ever just looked at a guy and said, "Screw it"? ...Well, maybe not the best choice of words, okay, but... Like, when you were with Sully. Don't you regret letting him go?
Because I've also got you in my head, telling me that marriage will hobble my personal and legal freedoms.
Oh, just go.
The missing kn*fe from the set is an eight-inch hollow-edge utility kn*fe. But sharp or dull, it couldn't have made those injuries you found.
Yeah.
I can go about six hundred times before degrading the image.
Do you really think her husband k*ll her? I mean, it makes sense he would spare Abby...
Mm. You know, when I said before that... you were the difficult friend inside my head... it's not necessarily a bad thing.
You know, I... I shouldn't have brought up Sully before. I'm sorry.
You get scared.
I want to say no, but... yeah. You do. And so does whoever you're keeping yourself from.
Abby's car stops suddenly. Carly doesn't have her seatbelt on, she's propelled forward, slamming her head into the dashboard and injuring her neck.
What about what you found in the backseat?
So she was r*ped before she was k*ll?
Wait, a ceramic kn*fe?
I fits the scenario I was working out.
Ben and Carly were having an affair.
Hey, what are you doing in here? I thought we were gonna go for sushi. Ugh, it smells like sushi in here.
And the smell?
Oh, the fish bacteria?
Yeah.
Yes. Yes. Let's get married.
I know. That's why I'm asking you.
What you said here... that we're enough... just this, no pressure for more... that's all that I ever wanted. Hodgins, say something.
Is that a yes?
No. Right away. Next week.
We have to. One week.
I could change my mind. It's up to you.
No. Big. I want a big one.
You have GOT to be kidding..
You want me to take this - face - and build a skull for it?
No.
No.
Because I am a human being. Is she missing every bone in her body?
Oh. Alright. Leaving the third circle of Hell. But before I go, I think she's Asian.
I'm not going off skin tone. I'm going off her hair.
Please, God. I am not out of earshot yet.
Oh. My. God. You guys are perverse CAM: Dr. Brennan was right. Bone people, should only do bone things.
Did you hear about Zack and Hodgins and the balloon in the head?
Yes. The least I could do was try to get her a face, poor woman. So, a boat, hmm?
Hm. He's like me.
Well, he's not really made for all this m*rder and corpses and empty eye sockets crap. He's a romantic.
No. You're a romantic of a narrow kind. You live to catch bad guys. Sully lives wide. Hey, I got a hit off the Homeland Security Database.
Yeah, she's here on a fiancée visa from mainland China.
Yeah, this is the v*ctim.
Okay then. My Bad.
Like Brennan said, caner.
So it's definitely a guy.
Which should be enough to identify him through hospital records.
Is there any way to tell what kind of blade was used on the skin?
Wait? The v*ctim was poisoned? I thought she was b*at to death.
Want me to bring you up to date?
About what?
Go.
Go.
Go.
Go. What is the downside? He's a great guy. This is a great idea.
Oh, we'll meet you in Barbados. Look. You have been working every day since I met you. It's time to let another part of yourself out into the sun. With a bare chested man and a tropical breeze.
He looks nice.
Listen to me, Brennan. Go. They'll still be m*rder and mayhem when you get back.
Wow. They kinda go together.
Yeah. But more than that. They're exactly same level of hotness.
She was ill, and he was ill. It's really too bad they never actually met.
You ever think they're spirits actually did meet and are working to get their bones together her on the psychical plane?
You know what you people lack? Whimsy. It's a genuine handicap.
I am gonna draw them a wedding picture.
Well, you're handicapped, Zack. Someone really needs to throw a telethon for you.
Okay, well, he also checked the National Stolen Art File, and there were no reports on missing mummies, but he's checking with individual museums and curators now.
Yeah, but is that worth k*ll for?
Booth questioned those eco-terrorist freaks. They said they found the mummy when they went dumpster diving. Apparently, they thought it would be a good symbol. He said their story holds.
Ew and good.
Buried treasure inside the mummy's chest?
Okay, so you're spying on Daisy.
I know, isn't it?
I thought you fixed her.
He was dead, Sweets. He felt no pain.
Cheery thought. Thank you.
Yes, uh, sure. Imhotep is looking for the reincarnation of his ancient lover. This could be a motive.
He's Daisy's trainer. If she attacks, he can put her down.
And what does this have to do with the m*rder?
This poor woman. You know, she gave me a lift last month when my car broke down.
When I was in Rio, some kid graffitied a mummy in the National Museum. The next day, choked on his own tongue.
"Death shall come on swift wings to he who disturbs the peace of the mummy."
A redheaded boy peed on her eye?
Any of those things scream "pee"?
Wait. I didn't know they had redheads in Ancient Egypt.
Isn't it weird that 3,000 years ago, Anok was a real guy, 24 years old - like Sweets - living his life and falling in love?
Yeah, that was the romantic notion I was going for. Thank you.
Is everything okay, Daisy?
Animal, vegetable and mineral.
Oh, my God. The three particulates are totally different but they're actually the exact same thing.
Woad, kermes insect and bone were all used by the Ancient Egyptians to make paint. I learned this when I was in art school. Bone for white, kermes insect for red and woad for indigo.
Right.
No. They didn't paint those. They weren't important. It would have been like painting Tupperware.
Well, it must have been important and it needed to last forever. So, if I can scan the cavity and find out where the paint seeped into the different tissues, I might be able to reconstruct what was in Anok's chest.
Hey. How could you not tell me that you were on a date when I texted you?
Celibate. Seeking crumbs. Spill.
Wait. This is his boss's boss? Was Booth upset?
Brennan, this could screw up the natural order of things. And Booth wishes that you were going out with him.
And not with Booth?
Yes.
The paint residue was found inside the compacted area in Anok's chest. Now, I laid a grid over that area. Next, Hodgins inspected each section of the grid for chemical residue, assigning values based on our color differential. It was kind of like paint by numbers. Okay. Anyway, bone for white, kermes insect for red, and wode for indigo. Okay, now I reshaped, refined and cropped the edges. And finally, I removed the grid.
Yeah. A negative impression. Because they were left by the object that was hidden inside the chest.
I know, right? Next, we take the object out and we look on the bottom and we have the positive image of the hieroglyphs.
Yeah. Well, some of the paint residue had faded too much and couldn't be retrieved.
I know.
Sex?
Oh, come on, Brennan. Be a pal. I need a vicarious thrill. Please?
There's the embedded object.
Yeah, a giant ruby.
Come on, you two. The Ambassador is about to speak.
Roxie and I are going to an artists’ retreat in Pond View.
You are?
Oh.
Hey, yeah, I’m all set.
Well, I’ll see you all on Monday.
There was a m*rder on BRENNAN’s plane to China?
What are you, like, sixteen?
Maybe you should...
Thanks.
Okay.
Okay, sweetie, we have a solid link here, audio and visual, so you should be able to beam us all the digital photographs you can.
Hey, Booth. Good flight so far?
Ooh. HODGINS has that meerkat look on his face.
I’m using interpolation software with a blending edge algorithm. Kind of like what I’d do if I were restoring a painting.
Uh, no, we’re gonna do something here.
Don’t say it like that.
What do you think? Candle wax?
Yeah. I’ll get the computer to find the all the pixels that are within a couple shades on the color wheel.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, thanks. I was totally flummoxed. So the clean part here must be where it overlapped, and the darker part must be where it came in contact with the skin.
No, but, what about a finger size?
Eighty-two millimeters in circumference.
Or overweight.
I see it, but I have no idea what it means.
Oh, that would explain the creases. So if I highlight the parts where the adhesive wore off, it was bent more than ninety degrees. I really love working, with you.
Yeah.
Yeah, I—I got that from the fast double back.
It’s real, yeah.
I’d love to say yes to that, because I think it would make you feel better.
I’m sorry, but, yes.
Sweetie. God. Totally forgot you were there. I guess you heard everything, huh?
Well, what do you think?
Right. Finger stuff.
That’s great, sweetie, but what about the rest of the conversation?
Thanks for the talk.
I enhanced the photographs of the sternum. Light was reflected off of this area here. Skin wouldn’t do that. There were tiny metal shards imbedded in the bone.
Yeah.
He was sixteen.
Dying mom, cheating father. He just wanted to make it stop.
I want you to come with me and stay.
I mean, I-I want you to, move in with me.
No. It isn’t.
No.
With my bag packed by the front door, yeah. Why aren’t you saying anything? Right. Because you’re gonna say "no".
Why?
Okay.
I’m always the one to say that.
I have never seen anything so gorgeous on this table before.
She's registered as a foster parent. Russ asked her to do it after he began his prison term.
He liked it! Do it again.
We thought it would be bad form to examine the remains in front of the baby. You know, creepy formative memory?
I'd love to. Get used to it. I want, like, a million of these.
Junior made us a little present.
Not yet. This is just the usual present, but with one major difference.
Asleep in your office. I was gonna start the facial reconstruction, so...
Okay, you two had better get your act together or I'm suing for custody. This is my rendering of the v*ctim.
I've determined an approximate size and shape for the key.
Yeah, and the closest match is an old design used for safety deposit boxes in banks. I'm looking into banks near Huntsville that still use them.
Well, we couldn't get a clear enough picture without exposing Andy to too much radiation.
Excuse me?
I don't know. I kind of have a thing for chaos. I guess I'll stop when the Feds need to airlift me in supplies.
You don't want kids?
These keys were coded to indicate a specific bank so read me your numbers.
Okay, searching. Got it. It's from Green Hills Bank in Petersberg, West Virginia. I'll send the directions to your phone.
No problem. How's my little bruiser?
Sure thing. Take care of him, sweetie.
Hey, you wanted me?
It's crushed.
Okay. I'll get right on it.
Yeah. I need some cotton swabs and some bleach. I'm cleaning dried bl*od off that flash drive. You do want kids, don't you?
Kids. Small humans.
Really?
Well, I'm not going to look like a-
Hodgins! Your...computer, it's beeping.
What is it?
Sounds like tires.
I'm not gonna get wider.
Brennan, it's me. Turn on your video stream.
The pediatrician is examining him right now. The baby is fine. Take a look at this. I recovered most of the memory from that flash drive. Dave Shepard's internal audit? Showed a completely different set of numbers to those reported to corporate headquarters.
Come on, honey. If we don't leave now, we won't get into the club.
Oh what?
That can wait, sweetie.
TGIF. You heard of that?
We know that's not true.
We're going .
Yeah, Pepé le Pew is more important that booze and boys .
Feels good, doesn't it? Being with people who are alive?
We are so gonna tear it up tonight.
Right .
Sweetie, it's not a costume. It's a cute outfit. And yes, it looks perfect .
No, because it looks great . We are so getting checked out!
Deejay Rulz, he is so hot.
Don't say "tribal", sweetie.
Sweetie, just for tonight, have fun, stop dissecting and take part.
We're going, we're going.
Uh oh.
Only by accident, so it doesn't count.
It's so hard to believe that you two would be a couple. You know, cop and lawyer. It's very touching .
Are you sure you need me here?
Roy Taylor? You're kidding! That's Deejay Mount.
Mount is one of the best deejays in DC. He used to play at the club. Everyone was wondering what happened to him. His album's really gonna take off after this.
Do you buy Tessa jewelry?
Too much of a commitment. I just thought because you two were going away-
It must hurt like hell to get that thing ripped out of your belly button.
Look at the size of the stud. I had one of these before they became totally Miami divorcée.
Polyethylene?
Yeah, that's a real diamond. Hey, why don't you get a belly button ring? That's not too much of a commitment.
So he didn't OD. He was m*rder.
Look at this, "Luv Rulz".
He was moving this way, toward Eve.
She didn't even stop when her belly ring got ripped out.
It got tight back there. Fifteen centimeters. Eve ripped out her belly button ring here and then left a smear of bl*od until the corridor widened, here.
What?
You pick dead bodies out of mass graves and yanking out a belly button ring makes you sick?
At this point, Mount must've looked behind him but kept going. Then the passageway narrowed, so he couldn't turn his head back toward Eve.
Jamaica? God, that's incredible.
Oh, you two are so ready for the pre-shacking up test vacation.
You have keys to each other's places. You've done the weekend away a couple times. Yeah, it's time for the ten-day vacation. You know, Jamaica's like a dry run for living together only with rum punch and steel drums .
Her skull shows damage to both the infraorbital and supraorbital margins and the zygomatic process.
A bag of crystal meth was placed over her face, actually ground into her wounds, into the airway.
Her right wrist was twisted hard behind her back. There's damage to both the elbow and the shoulder as well. For that to happen, Eve's attacker would've had to twist her arm up with his right hand while jamming the crystal meth into her face with the other.
Get this, I called Tessa to tell her a couple places she should check out in Jamaica. She's not going.
Well, she said something came up at work, but I know the truth.
They got freaked out by stage six.
One, spend the night. Two, spend the weekend. Three, exchange keys. Four, sexy weekend getaway. Five, extended vacation, inevitably followed by six-move in together.
I did not.
They got to stage five, and they balked.
Sweetie, it's always the guy.
Okay, this one here is our v*ctim, Ritchie the V.
Okay, so this one is L'il Frankie Costello. He's in most of his videos.
Yeah, sweetie, I don't think they actually like to be called that.
Really?
Right. And how do you know all of this?
A documentary?
Sweetie, just because it's called reality television doesn't mean that it's a documentary.
Okay.
Yeah, sure.
What?
Oh I'm, yeah, I'm messy. I know I shouldn't eat lying down.
What? Pregnant? Me?! No. No. No.
Okay, listen. I've been feeling a little bit queasy but, you cannot tell anybody about this.
Yes, we're, we're thrilled. I mean, I could be having a little Hodgins. How cute would that be?
Uh, no, I'm, I'm okay, actually I'm feeling pretty good. I can do anything, you know? I would hope that you could keep this between us because, nobody else knows.
Okay. I mean, you can't even tell Hodgins that you know, um, because he wants to make some sort of big announcement at the right time...?
Okay.
That I, I have a, um, I have a database of concrete items that can k*ll someone and today...is the first day that I can use it so I am...o-over the moon.
Great! Great, fantastic.
Okay then.
Okay, comparing the concrete sample to the injuries on the v*ctim's skull, the w*apon appears to have a curved edge. Okay, completing the arc...
Yeah...or a tetherball pole.
This plastic sliver is curved, just like the Minutecrete was.
Yeah, that's a good question. Well, since the plastic doesn't fit inside the circle, how about trying it on the outside?
Plastic-covered cement.
Yeah, she travels light. I used to travel light.
Hey, man of the house, come on in. Pretend you live here.
You're basically taking in a homeless woman.
I used to be a nomad...who drank wine.
Um...
Listen, you have to act surprised when Hodgins tells you, okay?
Thank you.
Yeah, I should probably get home to Mr. Hodgins.
Thank you. Hey, wait for me.
Blueprints, schematics, sketches.
Things in a toilet bowl should not move. Alright, look at this, this is a, a snow shovel with an attached heating device.
Clark, hey.
Really, you came back, huh?
Mmm-hmm, so why'd you come back then?
Yeah, I got a form letter here from the Patent Office.
Aren't you the least bit curious about whether Hodgins and I are back together or not?
No, there's a patent application number. We can find out who filed it.
I've got a hit on the patent application, filed by somebody named Paul Stegman. . I've got an address, there. Whoa, there's more than one Booth. I'm Angela. Montenegro.
Hi.
I prefer not to be labeled, okay.
Didn't have sex with who?
Good. .
Hmmm. Jared's Booth lite. Booth is the real Booth.
Here, in the Jeffersonian cold storage. Only, he's known as John Doe 100803.
Only if he drowned after being sh*t in the heart.
The real Jim Stegman has DNA on file stemming from an as*ault charge twelve years ago. I ran a search and this popped up.
Well if we didn't do it, why do we need a lawyer?
Uh maybe if you had a picture of him alive, I don't have a very visual imagination.
Well, Mr. B, I mean, that's what we all call Mr. Booth, told this hip-hop impresario, "C-Sync", who is actually very cute, by the way, that he would never book him, or any of his acts into the club.
Miss Julian warned us that you have to make an arrest in this case, and I just wanna say that just because Jared Booth and I went out on a couple of dates, and he cannot accept the fact that it is going no where, does not mean that I should go to gaol.
Hey! Awkward, very awkward. Awkward.
Yeah, I drew it. For the m*rder v*ctim, last night. You know how what I really wanted to do was interior decorating, right? I mean, I'm very good, I sort of have a knack. And he told me that he owned a nightclub, and that he'd hire me to... and I figured that he was probably hitting on me, but then Jared showed up and asked me out for, like, the hundredth time, BRENNAN: Why are you showing this to me?
Because if I show it to Mr. B, his head will explode. You're a cooler customer.
OK, If I had a better grasp of geography I might know what you mean.
Well, note the X. At this office. Traditionally, X marks the spot.
Well, yeah, maybe, or it's possible that the X marks a whole other objective. The only thing left is... BRENNAN: Me.
Man, I'm telling you, I'm looking at Sweets in a totally different way!
Whoo hoo!
I thought that Sweets was fantabulisticulious.
What crew?
It's Daisy, so they discussed sex.
Hey, Mr. B. Anybody else get arrested?
Oh, well, I got interrupted.
By Jared. He came in to ask me out.
Yeah, uh, table 11.
He's 500 years old. They've probably adjusted by now.
Brennan...a word.
Look. I know how you see things, and I respect that, but I need to ask you a favor.
I have to go to the funeral. I'm not going to be able to get through this alone. I've been crying for, like, days. I really need your shoulder here. I need my best friend.
I know.
What the hell is going on?
You guys are pathetic.
Silver skeleton?
A "cake and eat it too" situation.
Hey, anything you need, Zack. Just ask.
Yes it is. Because we - love you. I'll take the first shift.
Hi.
Oh, he's in a lot of pain but he won't let me push the pain k*ll button.
Take the pain k*ll, sweetie.
I'd like to welcome, all of Dr. Brennan's grad students, to Limbo.
Over 10,000 lost souls remain here, Sweetie.
What we want you to do is conduct an inventory - making sure that what's in the box corresponds, not only to the card in the box but also to the computer record.
We think that he's hidden the remains of one or more of his v*ctim here.
But I think it's fair to say that if you help us catch a serial k*ll, that you'll pass your precious course.
Yeah, for a nobody, he sure wrecked a lot of lives.
He never ate anybody?
So how did this happen?
I should have gotten him a girlfriend.
Well, what are we gonna do with it.
Hey, I drew this for him.
Brennan, he totally loved you. I mean, as much as he was capable.
God, What's that smell?
Oh my God.
You know...uh... I don't think I can...Sorry.
Hard at work? There's a shocker.
Look I ... I know that you needed help out there. At the crime scene and I wanted to but...
You holding up okay?
Whatever I can do.
And about this weekend...
Oh come on.
Brennan I know this great club, they play Trip Hop and Trance.
It doesn't matter. We'll grab Booth.
I think he likes you. God if I were you, I'd buy a ticket on that ride.
Remains from WWI.
And they can't wait one more weekend?
You know it's not that scary Brennan. You have a few drinks. You move to the music. You might even smile.
Too bad we can't tell why he did it. Isn't what we all really want to know?
It's best to just ride it out, like an earthquake.
Not really. A magician never wants to reveal her tricks...
I'm not here.
You live with a sexy lawyer?
Hmm, and how long were they married?
I'm with him.
Boobs perkier?
Because if she or her boyfriend were involved, she would warn him.
I'm a constant surprise.
So, how many nights a week does "sexy" sleep over?
Apparently, they live together a few days a week, but he was very clear that she has her own place.
Oh yeah. Absolutely.
Bottom line, I still think Brennan has a sh*t with Booth.
Methinks the lady doth protest too much.
Puh lease. She's been sleeping alone for months. She has enough pent up sexual energy to power a small mid-western city.
I'm gonna go check out this girlfriend.
There is trouble in paradise.
Tessa does not feel secure in that relationship. I think she's threatened by you.
She didn't say much but even though she has a phenomenal figure she was chowing down on a fat-free muffin and she was reading a book about unsolved FBI cases. Ughhh, she's obviously feeling insecure.
He is there for the taking, honey.
You've got it.
That's what friends are for.
Impressed?
I remember that one, thanks.
Yeah? Chicks with toys?
I know. It's just these bus schedules are totally confusing.
Okay, okay, uh...three movies start a six. There's a lecture at Fuller Hall on Birds. I can't imagine that will be crowded and a peace conference at the Hamilton Cultural Center. There will be speeches by Arab Moderates and a Congressman. That looks like the one.
Yep. With an interactive interface I implemented myself. Check this out. Click on this guy. The program has an index that catalogs anything organic.
Well, if you go into a fish t*nk willingly, you remove your wallet, right?
It's kind of scary, though, right?
Yeah, so do I.
So I'm looking for evidencene of shark attack and m*rder while simultaneously judging a photo contest.
Well, between 36 disposables and 10 cell phone cameras, we've got quite a selection here. Ew.
Sweetie, I think you need to stop worrying about sex codes. Hacker is a very up-front guy, who is also extremely politically savvy. Talk about strange overlapping k*ll, huh?
Hacker is very sophisticated in his job, but he's much more transparent in his personal life. Does that sound like anybody you know?
Well, you know who I think you belong with.
Well, I'm grappling with those same issues. So, yes, go have coffee with Hacker. And if it goes well, then maybe you guys can graduate to lunch.
Clothing.
Let me see that one. Let me see if I can, uh, scan this. Well, it's definitely a person.
At 2:38 a.m.
So this could definitely be our k*ll.
Because it was a cell phone camera that was aimed by a child.
And 30 feet of water.
Okay, so I used some warping software to reverse the direction of the distortion that was caused by the waves on the surface of the water. Then I lit it up. But this is the best that I can do.
You do?
Yeah. Sure.
I don't think so. No. No blue shark.
What a little liar.
This man died of a lionfish swirly?
I can't believe you took the bait.
All right.
I fed his dentals, approximate age, height, along with the rough sketch I made from the tissue markers into the D.O.D. database.
Okay. His name is Devon Marshall.
He served in the Guard with Kent.
He was there in Mosul the night Kent was k*ll.
I just think that you should be aware that Booth went through something over there.
Truth? It's *opinion* Jack.
Every major intelligence agency in the world thought there were.
No. Mistakes were made, *obviously*.
Nothing is that simple.
You want to make the world a better place, Jack? Try shutting your yap long enough to hear something other than the sound of your own voice.
How's Booth doing?
Sweetie --
You have to think before you speak.
Yeah. Men aren't like us. They're much more fragile and needy. The fact that they think *we're* the needy ones is a testament to our superiority.
Why? Because of your strident, paranoid ramblings?
You could try, but you'd walk funny for a week.
Yeah. I should be able to give you something.
Did you find anything in the wounds that might've changed the trajectory of the b*ll*ts?
Thank you.
Well you have to be careful people don't go deaf. You know, what you did for Booth before... showing him you understood, that was good. Everyone hears something like that.
Yeah, but all the insurgents had already been k*ll and they were the only ones with AK-47s.
Well, it's nice to know somebody that wants to keep honor and responsibility alive.
You're just doing your job. He knows that.
What are you looking for?
What do you mean?
I do.
As a friend, Brennan.
I'm not talking about that. I'm-- I'm talking about being there for him. Knowing when a simple touch is enough.
Okay, this is the third insurgent woman, about 40, holding the unexploded grenade in her hand.
Wait, she's lying on a dinner plate.
And a grenade?
About to sit down to dinner.
How could something like this have happened?
But if Kent turned to face him--
God.
So this was more than a friendly fire incident.
That's great, as long as the reception makes Caligula blush.
Hmm. . Hey what are those?
That's a good idea. Hey do you want me to uh, change my name?
Uh, sweetie? Was that your dad?
Okay I have a face, but you're not going to like it.
Well when I actually held the skull and started the tissue markers felt wrong.
It's both babe, and this time, art made science her bitch.
Hey moan all you want, I stand by this.
Hey Brennan, I'd like to ask you a favor, well it's not so much ask a favor as, as, as extend an honor. I mean I hope you see it as an honor, and you don't think of it as some onerous duty, which I don't think you will, but then again I've never done this before and of course-
Will you be my maid of honor?
At the wedding?
Is that yes?
Really? I thought I'd have to tell you what a maid of honor-
Meaning Angela was right.
Anyone wanna hear about the hit my sketch got off the NCIC database?
It's trying to be.
I jumped over a broomstick with a guy.
Jack, I-I'm sorry, this is my fault.
Yeah, I made this huge deal out of getting married and they all, they all-
What?
Thanks for coming
Is it sunny sweetie? Tell me it's sunny.
You want a reconstruction?
If I can? Have I ever failed you?
You have a whole skull, right?
So why is this going to be so difficult?
What thing?
Honey, you're in California. Forget the Iron Age. Say these words, 'Sky Bar'. Go there tonight; tell me everything.
Is it chocolate?
Then I find my interest has flagged.
Nice. Who is it?
Oh my God. I see what Brennan means. This woman has had a lot of surgery.
Oh, they're guys. They should just lay them out on the table and measure.
Okay, awkward moment. Let's just say they have different approaches and they're guys, okay?
You're more highly evolved. This girl didn't just change her face; she changed her skull. This is going to make Brennan nuts.
What's that?
Do the names Michael Jackson or Joan Rivers mean anything to you?
Sweetie, I'm having a hard time with this skull.
I can't be definitive. All the usual indicators have been modified. I reconstructed three facial variations. She had her cheekbone shaved, her chin changed, her jaw reconstructed. That's just what she did to her bones. We don't have a clue what she did to the soft tissue. Her nose, her brows, her cheeks.
The basic architecture is what I can't find.
Did you just tell me to guess?
Okay, well dress it up however you want, but it's still a guess. Look my experience and my expertise don't extend to this. A facial reconstruction might not be helpful in this case.
Okay Bren, you're being a little edgy and tart with me and all I'm trying to do is tell you the truth.
Is that your way of apologizing?
I accept. I love your guts, Sweetie.
The skull is in extremely good shape.
I used Zack's new tissue depth for the markers. However, every skull requires its own unique demands.
A lot more certain then I am on Brennan's Hollywood hooker case.
Hey!
Are you trying to get fired?
Is this because of how I made him look? 'Cause there's a certain amount of subjectivity involved in recreating a face.
Hodgins.
Okay look, everybody just turn and walk away.
You think you just won something. I'm telling you Goodman was the bigger man.
This is the paper that was pulled from Delaney's throat. It was dated, signed and initialed on both sides of the page. February 1978.
That makes sense, except "I will not put an innocent man in prison just because he is a political threat. Marvin Beckett hasn't broken any law." HODGINS: Oh. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Marvin Beckett? Back in the 60's, Marvin Beckett was a civil rights activist. He made his bones protesting African American over-representation in the Vietnam w*r. '78 he was sent to prison for life.
Why?
Wait. Augustus Harper?
August Harp Look. Augustus Harper.
You think it's Delaney?
We'd all like that.
That's true, but if you work here, you won't be Brennan's grad student anymore. You'll be a full blown Forensic Anthropologist. Cam, will be your boss.
Let's just say that Cam's not the kind of woman you catch with crusties in the corner of her eye.
Zack, Booth got fired.
Wait. Gus Harper was m*rder by a military sn*per?
Ooh.
Zack. I am a big believer in people being themselves. You're actually kinda cute..
Lost the floppy hair.
Dr. Saroyan? Dr. Brennan, Dr. Hodgins. I'd like to present your colleague. Dr. Zachary Uriah Addy.
Lunch is on me, Dr. Addy. Anywhere you wanna go.
Anywhere I said..
