You look short, don't you think?
But you are short.
Yeah, and "wildly intelligent."
I'm feeling uncomfortable.
Fractures are consistent with Dr. Brennan's theory. The v*ctim's wrist was broken to match Epps's injury. A blow to the head rendered him unconscious. He was then set on fire.
Shaved down by a rough sandpaper. Hodgins found mica grit.
What about the rest of us?
Hey, osteon count places the v*ctim's age as mid-30's. I'll run amelogenin and a nuclear DNA test to get sex and race.
Spices?
He's k*ll two people today!
I didn't say anything.
I could take the head and x-ray it. Then you could finish what you're . . .
I hate this part.
Dr. Saroyan.
Biological containment. Uh-unknown hazardous material. We need an emergency medical team at the autopsy lab ASAP.
Dr. Saroyan, they're on their way.
Did you search elect statically?
Yes.
If it were a gas, I'd be in the hospital with Cam.
It wasn't. Are we having an argument?
Why?
On the clothing?
What about the glass parts still left in the head?
I estimate that there's about 1/10,000th of a gram on this shard.
There was also a very small amount of sodium hydrosulfide in her ear.
Uh, leather goods.
Booth?
We've endowed Epps with intelligence he does not have. His clues are unsophisticated word games.
Uh, "my name is Parker. Ask me how I can solve this case."
It doesn't have to be your son. It can be something else named Parker. Something to do with leather goods or drywall. Do a Boolean search. Okay, right. You don't know what that is. Boolean is . . . I won't explain. I'll just do it.
Mmmm... Ummm...
I really need him to come back.
Uh, there's a Parker & Parker Leather Goods owned by the Parker brothers on Parker Street in the town of Parker just outside of Arlington. That's a lot of Parkers.
I'll just . . .
What do I do?
I'm not scared. I just need to know what to do.
You or me?
I'm not a good jumper.
I-I am a good counter.
On three.
But why? It's not true.
My doctor said most of my injuries didn't come from the expl*si*n but from being slammed into the floor. Apparently, you're extremely strong.
I was heroic too.
Well, I got the poison.
Why can't I go home?
Damage here on the left side of the skull, suggests a strong blow to the left temporal bone.
I'm intrigued that the Santa myth survived so far into modern times.
What Santa is suppose to do is clearly impossible.
You take into account all believers of the myth, factor in time zone, rotation of the earth and assume Santa travels East to West, he would have to approximately make 822.6 visits per second to reach every child.
Children have to be stupid to accept that.
There's an ellipsoid aperture in the mandibular left canine and first premolar. Consistent with pipe smoking.
Santa is often portrayed smoking a clay pipe.
We're not saying this is actually Santa Claus. We're merely anatomizing the evidence.
v*ctim appears to have odd shaped remodeling on his sacrum with a sclerotic margin around the injury.
Two small indentations, here consistent with trauma from impact with some sort of cloven hoof.
Evidence is evidence, whether anyone is there to hear it or not.
The sacrum.
Kristopher Kringle.
The shadow on the x ray is a slight depression of the outer endocranial table. Fractures levered inward. There are no signs of remodeling.
Very likely the cause of death.
I'll run it under the scanning electron microscope.
Going home to Michigan. What about you?
Sounds nice.
And we know that shape.
I couldn't find anything this shape, but by making a slight paradigm shift -
And slightly change the angle-
I believe the mark left on left on Kris Kringle's skull was the result of being stuck with a circular object, approximately 15cm in diameter.
Meaning he was probably attacked by another Santa.
Stop.
Stop!
Turn.
After I fix the voice recognition protocols, this is going to blow those Gomers at M.I.T. away.
I can't drink while I work.
Crystal in Accounting is after you, isn't she?
Yes, Dr. Brennan.
Now?
Put on a mask. I'm gonna take a couple core samples.
I cut into the fallout shelter bones and the biohazard alarm went off.
One of us was.
It's a fungus that can lead to pneumonia, meningitis, spontaneous ab*rtion, death.
I zapped the bones with ultraviolet light and arranged them on the isolation table so we won't have to worry about spores. In addition, I found this sewn into the lining of his clothing.
Two tickets to Paris, a wedding band, a picture begins to form.
Acrylic resins in the interior fillings from the 1940s. Childhood tibia break. Bad enough that he walked with a limp. Also, he wore a toupee.
It's made of a synthetic called Dynell. It couldn't have looked good.
Who brought us human remains just to ditch a little paperwork?
First treatment protocol involves extremely painful injections into the base of the brain.
Christmas is going home to Michigan and heading into the woods with your brothers to cut a twelve foot Christmas tree, and you all decorate it together. Brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews. Forty people who all love you and are happy to see you. That, my friend, is the true meaning of Christmas.
In some cases of valley fever, suppurating skin lesions appear.
I can get behind that.
I could build a random generator.
Six.
They'll probably give us cancer.
Be kind, rewind.
When do they insert the needle into your brain?
Any foul smelling pustules on your shins?
Hey, I'm a rational empiricist all the way. Unless you talk to my mother. Then I'm Lutheran.
That was bad?
I'm next.
It's my family. And me. Thank you.
Self-propelled, nonautonomic unit.
I thought if we get out of here in time today, you could give it to your son.
You're welcome.
Here's a replica. Cincinnati slugger with a 3 inch diameter weighing about 27 ounces.
But there's something else. Staining on Roberts cranium indicates seepage to the cervical spine. So somehow bl*od from his head, got down to his neck.
So his throat was cut.
Caused by a left-sided rib fracture.
Well, they do seem more the result over repetitive medium impact manual blows than the single high impact from a bat.
Maybe she dished it back. These hairline fractures on her knuckles-BRENNAN: Defensive wounds. Wait a minute. Let me zoom in? Repetitive manual blows. Fractured knuckles. The glucocorticoid that k*ll your bugs, Hodgins. Could it have been simple cortisone to treat an injury?
Thirty fighters translates to five two person fights per hour over a three hour period or three fights over five hours, six fights over-
None of these blades are narrow enough. It's as if his vertebra was cut with a razor blade.
Not that she was safe, letting herself get drawn into a fight like that.
Not me.
Never saw the logic of it.
I don't get angry, it's not rational.
I don't go to the beach.
I don't have much in common with a ten year old and although I don't know what a twit is, objectively I am thin and lack muscular definition.
Can we please work?
I would really like to work Hodgins.
I am the most valuable and accomplished grad student who's ever been installed at the Jeffersonian.
I'm working on my dissertation.
It's not what you think.
No striking you merely seemed to be the most practical way to get you to be quiet and focus on work, but I didn't realize how much it would hurt.
Thank you. And my dissertation will be finished by the end of the month. Have the chemicals been extracted yet?
Dr. Brennan wanted the results as soon as possible.
Sorry if these are cold.
Damage to Billie's scapula and thoracic vertebrae.
This contusion on Billie's fifth rib, the mark looks like it was delivered by a heel or a fist.
Now a right, followed by a grab to the throat and Billie's down again.
Hairline fracture of Billie's sternum at the third costal cartilage is congruent with damage to Marisol's left hand.
Marisol seems to favor the right-to-the-body left-to-the-head combo.
The choke hold -
matches the bruising on Billie's neck.
How could I missed that?
Good news.
The Anthropology Journal is publishing our piece on the evolution of the coronal suture.
You're supposed to bump my fist with yours.
I'm told it's a widely acknowledged gesture of mutual success.
Dr. Brennan is my forensic anthropology professor. Does that mean---
If she was his student and I'm her student, then it follows---
Good way to remove a v*ctim without being detected. Rubber gaskets seal in the odor.
Mm-hmm.
Why?
Oh. Yeah.
You run through a lot of students?
I'm a pretty advanced student.
No, uh, I meant me and her.
X-rays reveal low bone density and the parathyroid hormone levels are also low.
There is a medical condition called hyperparathyroidism.
Here's the left.
Here's the right.
Dr. Brennan found marks on the medial malleoli, both left and right.
Mirror erosion patterns from the bones rubbing together over time.
The bone abnormalities indicated pathosis from lying in one position for a long time.
Not alone. She's with those African American people.
Besides, Dr. Brennan must realize that we're going to destroy them.
You've never said that before.
Which suggests that this one is different.
I have no problem.
It entered the skull just behind the ear, nicked the mastoid, continued through the oropharynx and terminated at the opposite side of the mandible.
I'm not comfortable with 100%.
Yes. I am.
What are you doing?
I heard you were still looking at the v*ctim's skeleton and wondered if you found anything I missed.
You asked me, I answered.
Yes. This is exactly how I am.
Thank you. I am aware of that. Good luck this afternoon.
I don't miss things.
That's correct.
Yes. Striations found on the bone indicated a sharp-tipped w*apon without a cutting edge.
That's correct, yes. And copper particulates.
It is the entry wound in the mastoid made by the m*rder w*apon.
This is the same wound stained red. Is this what you were doing this morning?
It appears to be the same wound blown up to approximately 120 magnification.
Yes. Oh....
What did you stain this with?
Oh. These microfractures indicate that the w*apon went in so deep that the hilt hit the bone, causing microfractures CLARK: The hilt. Could you please indicate the hilt on this w*apon?
I cannot.
There is no hilt.
Obviously not.
Yes, I was mistaken.
Where did Clark Edison learn that trick with the food dye? I don't know that trick.
I found it.
A sharp, unedged, medieval copper dagger used for delivering a final, fatal blow.
The bones washed ashore on Chesapeake Bay.
The remains show evidence of b*llet wounds.
Looks as though they weren't made by a thirty-two, maybe a thirty-eight?
No.
Yeah, I can have them ready about eight tonight.
They have to stay here?
You know it wouldn't be difficult to someone to encode a secure data strip implant it on an ID card with a correct digitally encoded authentication data and sneak in here.
I worked on them for hours, Dr. Brennan.
I didn't think we had that kind of time.
I cleaned the bones Dr. Brennan. You could eat off them.
I've never heard of that technique.
The kn*fe marks were made by a non-serrated blade consistent with a pocket kn*fe like this one. I found additional kn*fe marks on C-5 indicating that the throat was slashed.
The grooving in the eye sockets doesn't match anything on the kn*fe.
If it's so dangerous here why are you leaving us?
Ahhh.
I also found that the cut marks on her bones showed that the pocket kn*fe had a knick in the blade.
I thought it could be a saw blade of some kind. I compared the damage with these. But the crenulations form a regular pattern. They don't match what we see in the orbital cavities.
Lack of hemorrhage in the surrounding eye tissue suggests she was already dead before the eyes were removed.
Not yet.
It could have been you.
Neutralize can mean either k*ll or arrest.
We found the key. FBI said Hollings never returned to claim them. It matches the bone damage exactly.
Yes, Hodgins tried to retrieve DNA from it but he says it was dipped in some kind of chemical bath to remove anything organic.
Maybe you should come in now, Dr. Brennan.
Yes, but only because he was never alive.
Not a dummy, it's an ersatz skeleton made from glass and reinforced nylon, which breaks exactly like human bone.
Using bone density tables, we duplicated Kristen's exact height and weight.
We recreated her bone density and found that her skull would not have fractured the way it did from a fall less than twenty-five meters.
He told me once that having a high I.Q. was no excuse not to bathe.
No, those were his exact words, "no excuse not to bathe"
Consistent with the trauma to the left lung and aorta, C-7 vertebra and the fifth rib were both nicked at a sixty-seven degree angle suggesting a single point of entry.
We're calling him Gormogon now.
Why? It's somewhere between a possibility and a probability.
Retrieved from the fifth rib.
You're married and you sleep with men beside your husband. What's the difference?
As you can see, the w*apon went right though her.
We've been assuming that Kristen was stabbed.
No one at the Jeffersonian looks like that.
Projectile?
still at a sixty-seven degree angel. .
Unfortunately for Mr. Shakespeare, Dr. Aldrige didn't actually commit su1c1de.
This is the most likely m*rder w*apon.
Actually, it's an Oryx.
I was being precise. You used to appreciate that.
Exactly. Oryx on table, struggle, Kristen Reardon is impaled on the Oryx.
It's not here.
We'll look for older injuries that might be found in medical records.
If a ghost isn't comprised of matter, but is merely ectoplasm, which is actually the clear outer layer of cytoplasm on amoeboid cells, how can the v*ctim have suffered bruising and multiple fractures?
We have more splinters.
I just keep hearing the screams. I never heard screams like that, Dr. Brennan.
Indicates an attempt by the v*ctim to shield his head.
My palms perspired profusely during that film.
From the degree of callous formation, that's a childhood injury.
Really?
The chatter marks mean the vertebrae weren't split in one blow.
I find your imagery both colorful and accurate.
Dr. Saroyan? When you say your mother visited you?
And you were frightened?
Dr. Brennan says that's impossible.
I think it would be wonderful if it were possible.
I don't usually announce each phase of my experiments.
It doesn't look like it was a machete.
I - I noticed some damage to the subdeltoid bursa. Looks like the subscapularis was torn away.
The injury doesn't fit into our established scenario of the struggle.
Face up or face down?
And the exposed wound where the head was severed would have been collecting particulates along the way.
What are we talking about?
But I'm quite literally in the middle of the conversation and it seems very interesting. However, your glaring indicates that I shouldn't press for further information.
But the v*ctim sustained extensive defensive wounds. This was a very powerful attacker.
Well, if Lori ingested those it's possible she could've caused Graham's injuries.
Female. Mid-30s at the time of death - which was between the mid-18th and mid-19th centuries.
Both skulls have depressed fractures on the parietal bones. They could've been k*ll with a blow to the head before they were decapitated.
An antiquated form of brain surgery.
Dr.Brennan. The witch's skull was cut with a Stryker saw.
They're also used in teaching institutions. I found a faded serial number behind the occipital condyle. It's from the University.
Something wrong with our electrophoresis machine?
It's a flame-retardant.
There were radiating fractures along the edges of the wound, which suggest the tip of the blade was blunt.
I'm trying to determine the type of w*apon.
Yes.
Yes.
I pretended to be a horse a lot as a child. But there was no sexual component. What melon is in season?
Once I've ID'd a possible m*rder w*apon we'll want to compare an exemplar to the entry wound.
The w*apon was blunt, an inch wide, and curved.
But the v*ctim was. At least, he pretended to be one.
A hoof kn*fe. They're curved to conform with the natural shape of a horse's foot. Could I have one of those honeydews?
My research shows that horses are slaughtered by a single blow to the forehead.
I... I apologise. It's possible that my time in Iraq transformed me into a man of action. I'll watch out for that.
Mr. Ed wasn't just playing like a horse, and having sex like a horse...
The v*ctim's feet were severed from the body with remarkable k*ll.
There's a sharp-force disarticulation from the distal tibia and fibula, passing cleanly above the talus.
Really Hodgins, what did you find?
I know.
No, because I examined the cuts under the confocal laser scanning microscope. How did you find out?
Same w*apon.
Help yourself.
Shouldn't you wait for the b*mb tech before you gather the expl*sive residue?
Dermestes maculates. They clean the bones by eating the charred flesh.
They're mine.
The entry presented itself when I was removing shrapnel from the reconstructed shoulder.
No. The fragments are lead in a copper alloy coating.
Damage from the blast makes it difficult to tell when the sh**ting occurred. I'm going to check the remodeling to estimate a time.
She could bandage herself and still be ambulatory.
'Walk around' implies aimlessness, which I'm not able to determine.
I'll inform Dr. Brennan.
The only reason we found any lead or copper in the shoulder was because of the blast. There was advanced bone remodeling.
Yes. Bone had completely grown over it.
I also found microscopic lead particles on the metacarpals on the left hand with the same degree of remodeling at the shoulder.
No. The same one. The metals are an identical match.
Angela could give us a scenario that could tell us.
That's the home of the defense contractor, Gerald Locklear, where the NLA burglary occurred.
Asymmetric narrowing on the first metacarpal phalangeal joints.
Would you like my finger Dr. Brennan?
I'm trying, Dr. Brennan.
If he couldn't pull the trigger, he wouldn't have the manual dexterity to assemble the b*mb either.
A triangular depression in the calvarium, interior longitudinal 1 fracture, grazed cortical bone and C1; there's a patterned impression in the bone.
More than once, by a square pipe? Does that exist?
Mmmm....
There's a vertical impaction fracture to his glabella and frontonasal suture.
It doesn't seem so. . . . I have seen this before.
From sharpened stone w*apon, in Neanderthal skeletons.
The blow to the front of the head would cause a severe laceration.
Indicating that the body was dumped there postmortem.
Neanderthals.
Accepted scenarios indicate a single individual attacked by two or more assailants.
I found stress fractures and degenerative changes in the fascid joints.
It should be ready, you can take it out of the boiler any time.
There are fractures of the pelvis, compression fractures of thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, multiple metacarpal and metatarsal fractures...
The injuries to the vertebrae, tibia, femur are consistent with landing on the feet after falling from ten to twenty feet.
The damage to the scapula and the acromion resulted from a low fall but forward movement from between sixteen to twenty miles per hour.
These injuries are more recent. Fractured and scored patella, and torn retinaculum.
What?
I need the skull so I can compare tool marks to potential m*rder w*apon.
Mmmmm....
That's a unique and exotic combination of metals not found in any of these...
I don't understand.
So the particles could've gone from the bicycles to the tools to the v*ctim.
Bi-cycle. Two wheels. The term applies.
I don't know what that proves.
Can I pick these up now?
A narrow instrument, no more than an inch, caused the injuries.
Strain, the crushing, tearing, shearing, equals a change in dimension divided by the original dimension.
An elongated rod, with this cross-section, is the most likely culprit.
Am I...King of the Lab?
Back.
No.
Sharper than round, but blunter than sharp.
In the back of the head, length undetermined. A width of 3.8 centimeters; approximately a thousand pounds of force.
That actually isn't very much.
Correct. It wouldn't take all that much force to crush a skull with this.
I can probably identify the type of tool off this cross section.
Does that mean anything to you?
Unlikely. There are obviously missing letters. We need to place the consonants most likely to appear with this configuration of vowels. And vowels to consonants.
Shh...Lee Snappers Doll Company.
Free Newspapers Dot Com. Keen Snappers Don't Come.
Knee Scrapers Dot Com.
Process of elimination? You realize I have no idea what it means.
So this man's pen was found on the m*rder v*ctim.
Hey, it's Zack.
The prybar from the garage is not the m*rder w*apon. It's a prybar like this one, but not this one. The deep parallel grooves on the interior border are not a match.
This is the shaft--
--of the prybar. It's made of tempered steel with a shiny chrome covering.
Yes. As you can see, the chrome is compromised. Putting chrome on a prybar is not a good example of functionality.
The bl*od flecks begin approximately 25% of the way up the handle.
I have absolutely no idea.
To forshorten the fulcrum.
Male. Forties. Approximately 6 foot 7, right-handed.
Basketball.
Every bone in his body is broken.
You're saying 'dude' way too much.
Who's Warren Lynch?
The jagged edges to the breaks. Small fragments. Lack of circular or radiating fractures or adherent spurs*.
Why?
Cam noticed that I eat macaroni and cheese every day for lunch.
Yup.
The v*ctim's left elbow and shoulder were badly dislocated post-mortem.
What's that?
You shouldn't call me Zackaroni.
Bone loss. Lack of bone density suggests that Warren Lynch was much older than his forties. But the other indicators of age - epiphyseal rings, radial sutures - all disagree.
It's handy having a pathologist right in the building.
This reminds me of when you interviewed me to be your grad student. She knows what fentanyl is.
I thought she did quite well.
In a car fire, gasoline ignites at 28 degrees Celsius and rises to a temperature of 2200 degrees.
No, we made him out of calcium phosphate and hydroxyapatite.
Twenty minutes now.
Which means there was extra fuel.
Six of them.
I'm from Michigan.
But...we're Hodge-Podge and Zackaroni.
The v*ctim was dead when this happened. He didn't feel it.
These injuries occurred when the corpse was forced into a jacket.
In the next lane.
Adjusting for the defraction of light caused by the curve-
Booth. Do either of these count as experiments?
Yeah, but Lynch deserves to be in a coma, so it doesn't count.
Multiple fractures. They could be from an as*ault or from being battered by rocks and debris while in the water. Stab wounds evident on ribs, manubrium and clavicle.
There was a dead fish in the plastic.
The sculls are in multiple pieces, but the damage is from debris in the water.
These all appear to be from the kn*fe that was missing from the set taken from Richardson's.
But Dr Saroyan seems certain that Richardson-
According to the reconstruction with these new bones the fetus has seven fingers
I don't understand, was there another v*ctim?
Ah. The bones from the lake are from a raccoon.
From the depth of the stab wounds we can tell the approximate force required in Newton meters to inflict the marks we see on the bones.
The clothes she wore figure in the resistance to the blows.
It's a dual-mass drop system.
The force used to make the injuries on the bones was 24 Newton meters. And the winner is, with 24 Newton meters - - Angela.
Oh, my god.
Abusive head trauma.
Yep. I'm working on identifying it.
British Colonial.
Doctor Brennan, the destroyer of evidence is here.
We ran a radiocarbon dating test. The finger's over three hundred years old.
Booby traps.
Pirate?
In 1832, a team of six men looking for the treasure were k*ll when a shaft they were digging collapsed.
A curse? We're scientists.
So you believe in pirates.
You know, I had an eye patch when I was six.
C-14 dating matches at three hundred years.
Legs are bowed, result of visible calcium and phosphate deficiency.
Epiphyseal separation in the long bones. Sunken sternum forms scorbutic rosary ... ... at costochondral margin.
Scurvy, syphilis ... ... pirate.
After he swam back up with the treasure.
Nothing, Doctor Brennan. I left them on the table just like you asked ...
They didn't get everything.
All the new ones. I was still examining the original finger bone we found for scurvy, so it was in my room.
Who would clean a bone before extracting all available information from it?
So true. So true.
A ... w*apon?
I wonder if there are any other similar marks on Macy.
I have alternatives that could've caused the hole. This ... ... is a disposable acupuncture needle.
This ... ... is a filament used for an angioplasty.
A real gold pirate coin.
What do you mean?
I should get my video camera.
Starting weight is 542.13.
And I know you requested a strainer of some sort, Dr. Brennan... but I thought this could be of use.
They get mad when I drop your name.
Right femur's pitted and brittle. Marrow's practically gelatinized.
Oh, good, Booth, I'm sure you'll want to see this too.
Guess.
It's our v*ctim's wallet. Can you believe it? Leather, cash, cards- every shred of identification, completely emulsified.
Yes, that's how I found the wallet.
Uh, I'll just keep sifting.
Not yet. Why?
I'll second that. Roughly "V" shaped.
It practically did. Along with teeth, I keep finding these tiny shards of copper from the fixtures.
No. That would would be a wedding band.
I think I've stumbled upon an anomaly, Dr. Saroyan.
But it's not. It's ivory.
I was hoping you'd know. If you notice these indentations here.
Like a m*rder w*apon?
I'm going on police business.
I think I scored, Dr. Brennan.
Dr. Saroyan sent me back to the crime scene. That's a junction box with a single brown hair embedded.
Across from where the bathtub had been. You'll find its contours match our trauma wound.
I assumed they'd come off the fixtures.
Could they k*ll a man?
Can I, can I move back in the place above your garage?
No, they just sent me home.
If you didn't fill my job, who's that guy?
Actually, what I'd like is get into whatever you were talking about before Br. Brennan's mental problem.
It's hard to concentrate when you're all staring at me.
The depth of teeth scoring on the skull suggests that it was cooked.
I'm seeing an interesting pattern in the scoring.
It appears so, but if you kind of un-focus your eyes and allow patterns to arise from what looks like chaos... here... here... here.
This scoring is different from both the gnawing marks and the damage caused by crashing through the windshield.
I dunno.
And also x-ray micro-fluorescence. Neither showed trace evidence of anything left on the bone by whatever etched that grooved.
But the answer was 'nothing'.
Iraq is from a different time zone. I can't seem to sleep right now. Fibula and tibia of the right leg are from the same person. Left femur from a different person. Three phalanges and one metacarpal, essentially an entire little finger, are yet from another person, probably the violinist.
Pressure indicators consistent with years of practice. Manubrium and gladiolus originate from two additional separate people. And this floating rib, an anatomically superfluous rib by the way, is from yet another human being.
Yes.
I don't know.
But we caught him.
Dr. Brennan always says that catching the bad guys is only part of it. The rest is knowing absolutely everything about the evidence.
I failed to assimilate. Despite my accomplishments, I was detrimental to a military team approach.
The army psychiatrist told me that I should question why the Jeffersonian is the only place that I can fit in.
Oy! Why are you listening to my chest?
Why?
I got tired.
I thought you'd want to know.
Yes. Three times.
The newest bones, the phalanges and the skull, bear only the gnaw marks of Jason Harkness.
Oh, I don't know how to answer that.
Eight seconds for the bleachers to close?
I don’t think the v*ctim was k*ll by the bleachers.
The skull shows evidence of powdering.
But, it is possible that the skull being forced through the grate caused the powdering. We’ll know more after the skull is reconstructed.
Thirty plus points in his last five games. Forty plus in the last three.
I tend to look better fully clothed.
That’s a match.
Do I have a smaller skull than whom?
It’s going to take me a very long time to reconstruct R.J. Manning’s skull. In order to discover whether he died from multiple blows...
Or if the skull was crushed through the heating grate, just like this one...
I calibrated the pounds per square inch from the closing bleachers.
There’s absolutely no sign of powdering here.
I see.
I see.
I see.
And you need what from me?
You might be interested in these crystalline deposits.
Bacteria, crystallized post mortem.
Mm, you may want to ask Edward Dekker. This is from R.J. Manning. And this is from Edward Dekker. Same strain.
That sounds extremely rational.
The idea that one person can be all things to another person, satisfy every need, or even more than one is sentimental and mockish.
Alpha-numeric. Z and S?
The numerals 2 and 5?
The one set of remains shows trauma to the legs, compound fractures and his pelvis is broken in three places. The other is virtually untouched.
The amount of bl*od suggests that at least one of them bled out. Probably the one with the injuries. I've also noted a constellation of identical non metric variants - extra foramina BOOTH: Does that mean they were twins?
Yes. If you increase magnification on the atlanto-axail joint, you'll see calcining on articular process.
Yes. Over 300 degrees.
No.
Commercial stun g*n. 625,000 volts - still not enough.
Actually, it's the amperage that does the real damage. But still, I've checked every commercial stun g*n I can find and none of them generate the right amount of power to make those distinctive marks on the bone.
Stun g*n generate a lot more power than cattle prods.
You should give him a chance.
I apologize. I didn't say anything.
Hodgins is rich.
"Rich squared to the power of ten times four" is how he describes it.
..and he tried to catch Dr. Brennan.
Dr. Brennan doesn't like it when we jump to conclusions.
I don't know what that means.
The Grave Digger modified a commercial stun g*n to knock out his v*ctim. I've figured out the voltage and amperage, but not how he modified it to boost the current - which will not help us find Dr. Brennan and Hodgins. I did figure out how Ryan Kent died.
He k*ll himself. He punctured his own carotid artery, which explains the amount of bl*od we found in the vat. He used a pen. There's a nick on the inferior angle of the mandible. I don't know why he did it, I don't really do "Why", I just do "How".
How does that help?
Hypoxia leads to mental confusion.
Minor correction. Dr. Brennan and Hodgins run out of air in....4 seconds We are out of time.
You're forgetting something. Brennan and Hodgins are out of air.
It's not a numerical alphabetical code or an equation.
You mean 'jump to conclusions" CAM: That's exactly what I mean. This is a message from one of them to one of us. Specific. Focused. Who was it meant to get to?
Angela. Hodgins is all about dirt and Angela.
6, 7, 16. Carbon, Nitrogen and Sulfur on the periodic table of elements. They are buried in coal rich soil.
Uh - mineral components of coal are all the same. It's the organic components that provide a unique fingerprint. They are called, mascerals. They fluoresce at different levels. A reflectance of 1.4 is quite rare - suggesting a high concentration of inertinite.
I know where they are.
These are Falstaff kerfs, which suggests a hand saw. The cut marks on the breakaway spurt...here ...should give me the number of teeth per inch, but to me it just looks broken.
Dr. Brennan could do it from this
Pack 'em up tighter maybe. Say, in a suitcase .
I saw a documentary once where a bear got into a car and drove away .
You bogarted my package.
The person who belonged to the arm died approximately a week ago and the bear ate it one to three days after that.
Angela is entering the date into the holographic display. I've found something else I can't categorize . Can I beam it to you?
Yeah, alright.
I've been focusing on, Dr. Brennan...
Who's that?
Not currently. Are you extremely good looking?
You mean from the bear?
Pigs are double cusped.
Yes, I am Charlie.
Humans.
Yes, and these drag marks is where the flesh was ripped right off the bone.
Is it the excrement you're anxious to look at, or the courier?
That's me.
That's Hodgins, he zoomed you because you're so beautiful.
I'm not being sweet, it's just a fact
Twenty four.
You said you were waiting for your bear poop. I said 'are you excited about the excrement or the courier', and you said 'what do you think'.
You have to be clear. What's that?
Metacarpal, I think that goes with my hand.
Pigmentation marks on the microphage.
She said I was sweet.
She said she wanted to eat me up.
Were you here all night?
Yes, she asked about you .
No, I told her the truth-that you were sifting through excrement.
That's not going to impress Toni.
The meat samples you sent us were all Ursus Americanus.
The saw is 300 millimeter with 32 off-set teeth per inch with a wobble factor of one one-hundredth of an inch.
Dr. Brennan, I'm just wondering if you're going to be sending us anymore samples.
Do you think she'll send more?
Yeah, the mold from the apple does not match the teeth mark on the bones.
Here, and here ...these look like tooth marks again.
But they are too regular, they're exactly 2.4 millimeters apart. Teeth aren't that exact...it has to be some kind of machine.
I don't know.
Indentations on Ann Noyes' sternum.
Forty BRENNAN: I can't believe both Dr. Rigby and I missed these. Good job.
Why do we have to face her together?
I definitely like this settle.
Yes, the act of signing is an analog for...
Why, why is that hot? It'd be hotter if she chosen me.
As I've told you many times before Doctor Sweets, I do feel remorse.
No, for succumbing to the faulty logic that persuaded me that his death was desirable.
Define 'crap'.
Now I realize it was drivel, blarney, nonsense, balderdash, twaddle, bull, bunkum, hooey. Then I perceived it as logic.
I estimate that I've regained almost 60% full function. Which is not bad for hands that were torn apart by an expl*si*n.
I was wrong, not delusional.
What did you bring me, Hodgins?
The lemma on it's own is difficult to solve because the solution changes dependent up on whether or not the subsequent proposition is auxiliary or subsidiary.
I know you're lying to make me feel better and not to be malicious.
So thirteen pieces. The linear function must be bounded before you apply the Riesz representation.
The characteristic polynomial of a differential operator is not the same as the characteristic polynomial of a matrix.
Yes. I'm king of the loony bin.
I've done that many times in the past. Angela says you and she aren't together anymore.
I'm sorry things are going badly for you.
Why are you laughing?
I know where to find the v*ctim's head.
You don't appear happy to see me.
Doctor Sweets helped me.
No. You're hurting my arm.
Everything in the room is organized in sets of twelve. A dozen shoes in the closet, a dozen action figures on the shelf, a dozen pencils in the pencil holder. Even books are grouped by the dozen.
I did an analysis of his novels. There's no recurring sets of numbers. Only recurring images of germs and fear of microbes.
They live at twelve kindergarten street. Kindergarten has twelve letters. Alphanumeric is also a twelve letter word by the way, but I suspect that's just ironic.
Books, CDs, everything. It's always twelve. In the yard, everything comes in twelve. Paving stones, plants. Decorative rocks, gnomes. Always twelve.
Even his name - Jared Addison. Twelve letters.
That's the most reasonable conclusion.
Your card.
I swapped out the magnetic strip, with loony bin library card.
Everything comes in twelves. Everything, except for this.
Time to go. I should get back.
I'm much stronger than I look.
I promise.
I haven't actually literally done it before, you know.
Ended someone's life. Why doesn't anyone ever believe I've had sex?
No, I said I k*ll him. Which I did - I told the Master where to find the man.
It wasn't me.
I would've done it. If the Master had asked, I would have done it.
You can't tell them, because I'm your patient, and you're not allowed. Ethically.
I'm still an accessory to m*rder. If you tell them, they'll take me out of here and put me in prison. Hodgins assures me I would not do well in prison.
No, the Master k*ll him, so he could recruit me. There could only ever be two.
You can't tell anyone without my permission. We should go in. I don't want to get you into trouble.
Usually Booth handles those people.
Why not? FAA stands for Federal Aviation Administration. The NTSB stands for National Transportation Safety Board. That sounds Federal to me and FBI stands for Federal Bureau...
This is the third time in a row we've investigated without Booth. I don't like it.
Ignoring me is Booth's way of acknowledging my presence. It's a guy thing.
What makes this one of our cases?
We're kind of special. We're elite. We don't sort though just any set of bodies.
I apologize if I have offended you. Usually we have an FBI Agent who mediates our interpersonal encounters.
Two skulls, those pieces are from two different skulls.
Obviously bodies are burnt to a crisp but no dermis, very little soft tissue, indications of high impact trauma, burst fractures to the lower thoracic and lumbar vertebrae consistent with injuries caused by the vertical impact of the falling aircraft. Should I keep talking as though you are paying attention?
Femur fragment.
You think this fragment doesn't belong to the plane crash.
A crashing plane falling directly on a human being? One in ten million.
Dr. Goodman, we found six sets of human remains on that airplane.
Cut marks congruent with dismemberment.
Nasal ridges indicated she was a Caucasoid female approximately 5'10" epiphyseal fusion puts her age somewhere between twenty to twenty-five.
Unregistered flight attendant.
Wait. What? What?
Oh, you think she was the in flight entertainment.
Supra orbital margin is rounded suggesting a male.
You want us to defy Dr. Goodman.
I was kinda hoping to keep my job.
Well, one of the bone fragments has distinctive ridge mark indentations.
Yes, specifically a carving kn*fe.
Some kind of machine blade.
Circular elliptical segmented, chainsaws are designed to cut soft materials at high speed when cutting hard materials like bone they create wave marks by the action of the blade. This pattern is too organized, too linear.
Not by being cut up, that's for sure.
I find Dr. Goodman scary.
The hack marks were caused by a Heidal carving kn*fe.
The v*ctim was frozen, dismembered, and fed into a wood chipper.
Maybe if we told Goodman what we know, he'd authorize a change in priorities.
So we're going to drop this and get back to what Dr. Goodman told us to do in the first place?
Uh, the prostitute was six inches taller then anyone else on the flight and she had occupational stress markers.
Both her Cuboid and Medico Malleolus show signs of wear.
Oh, I'll do that. Was that overly enthusiastic?
Booth, nobody told me you were working this case.
Told you. It's a guy thing.
Using what medium?
No way.
Too many people. How are we going to keep this from Dr. Goodman?
The morphology of pig bones is almost identical to human bone.
By comparing the pulverized pig remains to the fragments we found at the golf course we'll be able to tell if this is the actual wood chipper the v*ctim was fed through.
Polyurethane, the tough stuff. The v*ctim must have been scraping at something before he died. I... I can't identify this bone anomaly. It's full of osteoids, thick, maybe part of the mandible?
Me? Are you talking directly to me?
But what about our guy thing? If you're speaking to me, then does this mean I'm not on the team?
Pertinence...
The v*ctim died. We...we don't know how. He was then frozen, dismembered with a Heidal carving kn*fe, and pushed through a black mantis 1200 wood chipper.
But Ray Sparks was in jail.
The v*ctim is a middle aged male...
While you're there, look for a large freezer.
Polyurethane is a common insulating liner in freezers.
Ah, Dr. Brennan, Angela wants to know if we should order anything for you.
Guess we caught another one, right? All for one and one for all.
Shoe size, four. That's a school bag, but he contents are b*rned beyond recognition.
The v*ctim was female. Her skull shows Caucasoid and Mongoloid features. Also, Preauricular Sulcus to the pelvis shows the v*ctim gave birth five to eight years ago.
Maxillary Molars have been pulled and replaced with removable dentures. Lots of gold.
I'll dissolve a Bicuspid in Nitric Acid and do a chemical workup.
Part of her tongue?
Not anymore. She's pretty much extinguished by now.
That piece of Cartilage we found in Polina's mouth? Tihelix and Meatus Remnants.
Chen says it was bitten off.
I heard someone found a fingertip in their chili once. Dr. Chen also found vestiges of earwax.
I found cuts in the v*ctim's upper Incisors. There are also bilateral fractures in the femoral necks.
The result of the body going into spasm as it b*rned?
Angela's in her security review.
According the F.B.I. Pathologist there was no smoke in the v*ctim's lungs.
The v*ctim was already dead when she was b*rned. There was clotting in the lungs as well.
If the fire was hot enough . . .
Which wouldn't have happened if she were already dead.
The broken teeth could have resulted from particularly violent seizures.
There are alternative causes of acute muscular contractions. Poisoning, precipitous drop in bl*od sugar-
If I demand a lawyer will it get me out of it too?
Be happy they're leaving you alone.
Seizures could be due to low bl*od pressure, electrocution, infection, head injury, uh brain tumor, uh sudden lack of oxygen to the brain.
That much damage to the teeth could only result from multiple violent spasms.
Anytime. I can do two things at once.
No you don't but I'll give it to you.
I'm getting a degree in forensic anthropology another in engineering. What are you afraid of? That I'll build a race of criminal robots who'll destroy the world.
Very often.
I've been told. I'm working on it.
Not really.
Secret and meaningful information?
No.
No.
Merely persuasive?
Not without checking with Dr. Brennan or Angela first. See what they'd say, maybe Agent Booth if he talked to me, he probably wouldn't. I'd check with Dr. Hodgins but he'd say it was all part of a conspiracy so I mostly only take his advice on women. 480 volts 350 amps.
It's sort of secret information. I probably shouldn't tell you. Any other questions? Good.
480 volts 350 amps.
That's the voltage it would take to cause muscle spasms so strong they would fracture the bone.
What's his IQ?
If he's in the stratosphere then I'm in the ionosphere.
His IQ is not variable.
It depends on what kind of person he is.
The finger was severed using a hatchet on a wooden service.
No, older unsealed-pine.
M.T.E.B.'s have been added to gasoline since the 70's.
lead gasoline was phased out between 1975 and Phased out between 1986
How do we find that?
Tibial plateau fractures and ground disturbance suggest total body impact.
Epiphyseal union with the diaphysis on the wrist, knees and ankles suggests the v*ctim was between 14 and 18 years old. 1.6 meters tall, a very slight build suggesting he was at the younger end of the scale.
I never read comic books.
The face and cranial vault are badly fractured. Blows to the parietal have sent radiating fracture lines between the mid, frontal and anterior temporal buttresses. Why?
Conclusion: brutal as*ault k*ll him.
In the last 24 hours, I've read several dozen comic books and graphic novels.
No. They're quite interesting. The graphic novels esppecially.
They're bascically a retelling of the Greek myths with all the superheroes standing in for Hercules. Half god, half human.
Invulnerability, superstrenght, heightened senses, telekinesis... I would love to have some of those powers.
I- I don't really know. Is it an odd desire?
In some ways my intelligence is a handicap. Well, for one thing, I'm weird. For another, I tend to make people feel stupid, and they resent me for it.
I'll clean the bones and try to match a w*apon to the damage done.
I'm doing research.
Intensely allegorical modern myths.
On the surface, yes, but if you dig deeper the subtext becomes apparent. The conflict is representative of the Darwinian struggle between avians and mammals for dominance.
Yeah. And then here he explodes. But not really.
What?
Impossible. It's only a 4% peroxide solution.
A 4% solution wouldn't cause that.
The intertrochanteric crest is almost totally eaten away.
This kid was sick.
Hypercellularity with total effacemenbt of the marrow space. Osteoblasts at 26%.
Dr.Brennan, I found an extra piece of bone I can't account for.
I found the extra piece of bone lodged here in the odontoid process of C2. I-I went through all the chipping and damage again but I can't find where it comes from.
Oh, it's not?
Arm bone?
Are you going to prep your own bone slide?
Usually I do that for you.
Wait. Warren Granger's are bones are complete. This extra bone fragment didn't come from Warren Granger.
Which means that piece of bone could've come from his m*rder.
Dr. Brennan, based on your histology and the DNA, the bone chip found in Warren Granger's neck came from a Caucasian male, mid-30s.
We hit a dead end trying to reverse engineer it from the mark on the neck. Too much damage and fragmentation.
This blow to the sternum would have been fatal, dealt by a double edged blade BRENNAN: So we know our k*ll is strong.
The injuries to the knees aren't from baseball bats or b*ll*ts.
King of the lab.
I've identified the m*rder w*apon.
Tapered, inch and a half, with both a hilt and a quillion. The cannelure is also quite distinctive.
Dr. Brennan, missing persons send over dental records from middle-aged men. I checked them against the v*ctim.
Father Douglas Cooper. Vicar General to the archbishop of DC.
You make fun of him all the time...
He was right about the knees.
Yes, Dr. Brennan.
The numbers on the tapestry are simple alpha numeric code. Each number corresponds with a letter. Civitas. Capitolium.
The point of the compass is over the US capital building.
The highway overpass, off of which Gavin Nichols head was thrown.
So far, I've identified 18 different v*ctim and I'm not done. All bones show cannibalism indicators. This tibia appears to be over 50 years old.
What I mean is the v*ctim was k*ll over 50 years ago.
The teeth marks on this bone do not match Gormogon's teeth.
Dr. Brennan, it's me Zack. I found something in the Gormogon vault I think you should see.
Who's that?
I was down here helping Angela decode when I noticed the mirrors.
Put these on so you can see where you're going.
I'm surprised no one noticed the mirrors before. They're everywhere. Different kinds, different sizes. Placed seemingly at random around the vault. But, I have an over developed sense of spacial reasoning. As a result, things that appear random to some people appear deliberate to me.
Watch this.
Want to see where it ends?
From that spot you'd be able to see every corner of the vault.
These are the marks left by Gormogons teeth. I reverse engineered a dental set. So, this is what the front plate of Gormogon's teeth look like. Top and bottom from incisor to incisor.
These are the teeth from the b*mb.
The tooth found in your shoulder, was chipped. In fact all of the teeth we found, almost a full set, were chipped.
No. These marks here? Were made by common hardware store pliers.
I don't know. Certainly they were removed with pliers.
I was photographing the skeleton in preparation for taking it apart, when I noticed this on a rib
It's a number.
It could be a ordinal index automata. I could start a solution but it would extend into infinity.
Forever. Obviously.
Meaningless.
1026 is a number, not a name.
Oh, I solved that one. In my head. While having my Cup-a-Soup.
What I'm doing is smothering the phosphorus with argon. Thus, giving Booth time to reach him with tongs to remove whatever is inside the box before it ignites.
Ready? Door. Tray. Lid. Tongs.
Did Booth get it?
Not for another three to five minutes.
The mandible suggests male and the tibia suggests he was between 5'6" and six feet tall.
Athletes?
The teeth suggest early middle age.
Uh, calcified holes with radial fractures in the left clavicle and scapula are consistent with ballistic damage.
And stabbed, but neither k*ll him. The wounds healed.
There's a small hole in the back of the cranium.
Based on decomposition of the tracksuit, Hodgins is estimating a postmortem interval of two years. Based on bone deterioration, I like three years.
The v*ctim was dead shortly after this hole was punched into his skull.
No radiating stress lines.
Yeah, something along those lines.
I like nicknames. They're universal mnemonic devices.
The technical term is "pithing".
It entered the medullary pyramids and beveling on the entry site suggests it was - I don't believe there's an English word that adequately describes -
Okay, wiggled, thus paralyzing the v*ctim and causing some difficulty breathing. But he would live for upwards of several hours.
It appears that the concrete was poured over him while he was still alive.
These chunks of concrete are in the shape of a sinus cavity, bronchial tubes, plus kind of a hollow around the middle finger.CAM: You said he was paralyzed.
Which control the flexor carpi radialis.
But if it was -
The v*ctim would lose the ability to move the ring and pinkie fingers.
One conclusion is that the was trying to swim to the surface using only his middle finger.
We prefer the term "pilots".
Forensic anthropology is only one of my doctorates. The other is in applied engineering. I'm extremely adept to practical aeronautics.
Crashes bring everyone to their feet.
Drive onto the field.
Put your car where they like to land. Everyone will stand up and yell at you.
The prosthetic will cause a slightly unnatural alignment of the spine which will result in a compensating adjustment of-
We process evidence. There's no more evidence for us to process.
No, we suck at interpretation.
I'm with you. I'm with you, not ahead of you.
Oh! Uh, Kennedy was a tr*nsv*stite.
You can't smoke at the movies. I don't now about porno.
Definitely Booth's tooth.
This is one of those times when I have no idea what's happening.
It's a solvent.
M.E.K and chromic acid are both used to prepare metals.
Coating - uh, painting mostly. Electroplating.
Shavings?
Gallagher flies everywhere? An aluminum propeller requires a coating that could withstand between 10 and 20 tons of centrifugal force- preferably anodized.
Look for the words "lamination,""electroplating"-
"Serial thermal processor."
I can tell them apart. That's Jeff, and that's Ollie. I win.
You had Jeff, I had Ollie. Ollie won. You owe me a buck.
Arthropods do not possess groins. Pay up.
Pre-existing the as*ault, probably an old injury from dance or running.
When she was being b*at to death with a blunt instrument, she threw her arm up to defend herself.
The hair they found was never matched to anyone?
The ME concluded that they were bone fragments dislodged by the tyre iron.
The prosecution's theory of the crime does not include foreign matter in the bone.
I can't drive.
If you knew what I know about structural design, you wouldn't drive either.
Most recondite codes have a complex numerical cipher.
12402510221. That's the number they found on the v*ctim.
It's not a phone number.
I was out taking the pictures you needed and there was a sign and numbers on the ground, and I thought 'why assume a quasi-randomly generated...'
The number they found on the girl. 12402510221. Everyone assumed it was a phone number. But what if, instead of spacing the numbers like a phone number, you space them like this? I was in the park taking pictures, and I saw that the parking space was numbered. To get to picnic area 10, you go through gate 25.
The time. 12:40. It's when she was gonna meet whoever she was meeting.
Probably with the guy who left the pubic hair on her.
There was no gravel where her body was found. It was all grass.
The left triquetral.
I concur.
It's a visual match.
Probably from the tyre iron.
Anthracene and fluoranthene.
The pollen and silt both showed traces of complex chemicals.
He was wrapped in a shroud?
FBI's on it.
Weighted impact against the, uh, scapula and clavicle. CAM: He was struck?
No compression fractures to the ulna or phalanges. So his arms weren't outstretched or across his face.
Suggesting he was unconscious before he went out the window. Perhaps from being struck by the rusty pipe?
Start what?
I analyzed the impact damage and the w*apon was a cylinder approximately two inches in diameter. That, plus the oxidation residue, suggests, in the vernacular, a rusty pipe.
Romeo and Juliet. Act 2, scene 2. The quote considered to most aptly describe the central conflict of the play - which I totally do not understand.
I'm not used to bodies looking so much like actual human beings.
Since this man was just k*ll and there's plenty of flesh, how is my presence beneficial?
The number six rib.
Case closed.
Are you having a moment?
- not the oxidized iron.
How far down? We seem very far down.
Is there any other way?
What about shock tolerance? The rope jerks, pounds-feet of kinetic energy increases and snap- we fall to our deaths.
We found bl*od traces and bone chips on pieces of exposed pipe and rebar jutting from the side of the ventilation shaft.
The fingernails are totally clean.
We got most of the skull. There's just a piece missing about the size of a quarter.
Those are rhetorical questions I'm not supposed to answer, right? These are not simply random abrasions.
Marni's skull was fractured by a midair impact during her fall. That's evidenced by the radiating fractures centered above her right temporal bone, but this damage is isolated on the left side of her skull.
From the fracture pattern, it appears to be a sharp, pointed w*apon.
Fragments of Latin.
You know who knows about that kind of stuff?
No. I am not taking possession of that piece of evidence. You show it to him.
Those skull fractures are centered above the left parietal lobe.
A glancing blow.
Meaning the attacker struck from above. And from the v*ctim's right.
She was only struck once.
Male, mid-30s.
By Union Army you mean...
They argued. One k*ll the other for the treasure. Doesn't that mean the vault will be empty when we find it? Oh, my God, they got me, too.
The mold filled in the missing sections of the skull.
It's a "T." It's not a kn*fe or a hammer that I've seen before.
The m*rder w*apon is a kind of sharp-edged instrument with a handle, not a hatchet.
The w*apon was a Hanks climbing ax.
Eh ... Postmortem trauma makes assignation of cause difficult.
Swings?
I miss my first microscope.
There was complete disruption of all ventral ligaments between the v*ctim's skull and the first and second vertebrae.
Dislocated fracture of the mandible suggests her death was caused by a strong blow to the chin by an object heavy enough to leave markings on her -- -- mental foramen.
This is the rib cage of a healthy ten-year-old girl.
Yes. I wanted larger biceps before I became comfortable with my mental acuity.
There's no enamel erosion to indicate bulimia, so it's more likely she's been on a calorie-controlled diet for at least two years.
Human growth hormone, broad-spectrum antibiotic used to treat acne, and a chemical mixture that controls perspiration. All with serious side effects.
bl*od would've rushed to the injured areas that are evident on her X-rays, but there's no evidence of bl*od flow -- -- here or here or here.
The blows appear to be consistent with kicking but the dispersal pattern is abnormal.
Only that they are quite rigid, possibly steel-toed.
And they're too broad and rounded to have caused the damage to Brianna Swanson's bones.
Why?
The kicks to the back were the attacker's attempt to force the body farther into the culvert where it couldn't be seen.
One, two ... three, four. And she was kicked twice in the same place here, twice as deep. So five, six.
The fracture pattern suggests a slight rotation to the blows.
About thirty degrees.
Yes.
Okay.
I'm applying a ... biometric graph ... right here.
No.
She has very nice symmetrical buttocks.
Brianna Swanson's attacker has a thoracolumbar curve. Scoliosis.
A fore-stop trammel.
It's from the parking lot at the Red Shed convenience store.
It's a match.
I've been looking at low-impact housing. I saw a free-standing house that was 118 square feet. This entry to the sternum might not be a b*llet hole.
There's room for a bed, kitchen on one wall and a small bathroom. I don't really see why I would need more. Isn't the goal to reduce our impact on the environment?
That's why I work.
He must be happy.
A sty?
From the injuries, it appears there was a struggle. You can see the bruising and fresh hairline fractures on the femurs and left ulna.
That would be my assessment.
He wasn't sh*t.
I was mistaken. It occasionally happens. The hole is actually a congenital abnormality. A sternal foramen.
Not quite. I found multiple puncture wounds with hinge fracturing on the scapula and posterior aspects of several ribs.
I'm working on it.
These three phalanges still have some tissue.
Meaning she died the day before Frank?
There's perimortem trauma to the skull. But it's not severe enough to cause death. I also found multiple broken ribs, and the sternum is severely fractured.
She has an interior superior margin fracture to the C-5 vertebrae.
Yes.
It's a statistically rare possibility, but one that would have k*ll her instantly.
These puncture wounds...I still can't find any w*apon this small and curved.
Which is odd, because the wounds appear deep.
Fracturing to Emma's sternum I concealed a malformation that became apparent once I finished reconstruction. A sternal feramin.
I've tested over 40 different knives, ice picks, leather awls. I couldn't find a m*rder w*apon to match.
Usually I can determine the w*apon. This is a very frustrating m*rder.
The result of repeated stabs by an unknown and very frustrating object.
A pitchfork.
These three wounds mark the termination of a three-tine pitchfork's penetration.
I'll go match the exact type and make.
Elliptical wounds on the frontal bone with reverse beveling. He was sh*t.
No. Irregular exit wound on the occipital. Looks like a through and through.
The first body in the book is tied to an anchor and dropped in the water at a marina.
So, is the FBI aware of the situation.
I meant the other m*rder in your book. The marina v*ctim is the first of three.
It's just the later dump sites are far less specific. How could the FBI prevent -
Is this Greg person an electrician?
But glass tape is used on aircraft too-
There's no exit wound.
Eh, I don't see it. The tissue was too badly scavenged.
In Grad school, I developed a more efficient method for k*ll rats prior to dissection. It involved a warm dish of water and the clever use of a ball peen hammer.
Warm water soothes them like a bubble bath, then-
Yes, but we're debating the method of b*llet retrieval.
We have the b*llet.
The b*llet was jacketed showing little deformity.
Lack of shattering around the exit wound of the first v*ctim suggests a jacketed projectile.
So much for that theory.
The same.
Nothing. Only the g*n sh*t.
I think the v*ctim would agree with you.
I'd say the 3rd b*llet was definitely sh*t from the same barrel as the first two.
And the g*n on this body was straight through the heart.
The v*ctim was stabbed upward of 30 times. Every rib is marked. Vertebrae sternal, vertebrae costal.
Uh, pointed, with no cutting edge. Like a giant ice pick.
Who's the guy?
Angela has a boyfriend?
Dr. Brennan doesn't like us to listen to music while we're working.
She thinks the work deserves our full concentration. I need the skull now.
I'm telling Dr. Goodman.
Peyote.
I haven't really had a good crack at the skull yet. Hodgins hogged it. The markings trace to several desert-dwelling species. It seems a full-grown male coyote did the most work on it, but one with a malformed jaw. Very unusual bite formations.
One week in the desert and there's nothing but bone left.
Looks like it.
I disagree. And you can't have them unless I release them to you.
Sir, Dr. Brennan needs to know how this man died, which is my territory, more than when and where he died.
It's the desert. Insects and particulates aren't going to narrow it down anymore than that.
That's the wrong decision.
Yes, Dr. Brennan?
Preliminary analysis indicates the pubic rami are fractured and the left hemi pelvis is severely displaced.
Yes, Dr. Brennan. Were the remains found at the base of a cliff?
Sorry, Dr. Brennan.
I still have some work to do here.
I am Dr, Brennan's grad student.
Once I get my doctorate, she will take on another grad student. My job here will go to that person.
Some libidos are inflamed by a proximity to death.
Congratulations on your coffin sex.
Some of the information you sent for analysis seems to have come from remains that have already been embalmed.
I could fly down there to help, Dr. Brennan.
Does our funding allow us to do Dr. Brennan's vacation work?
So we're sneaking?
John Doe 361. Wow. Bad things happened to Mr. Doe.
Regarding the X-rays of John Doe 361.
You don't remember?
Male.
Late 40's. Mixed race. Anomalies on his spine which I'm looking into. But the point is, his death was not accidental.
Obviously, they're working the m*rder of John Doe 361 together.
On John Doe 361...
...there's a narrowing of the disk space on L2 and L3.
Ah. Voodoo amnesia. It's a good one.
Zack Addy.
Yes, Dr. Brennan. We found some damage to the pubic bone. Some kind of strike marks.
Can't you send the actual remains?
That makes no sense.
Me, too.
Probably dirt.
You can't see air on an X-ray.
You can see a space where air might be like a cavity, but not the air itself.
Sometimes a person should look for things that aren't there instead of things that are there.
No. Me. On the X-ray. I've been looking for anomalies which exist instead of anomalies which don't exist.
I've noticed that you try to look taller.
Around Dr. Brennan.
And Angela. Because they are both taller than you.
Thank you for your help.
I can identify this guy.
Spina bifida. He had a shunt from his brain stem down to this heart. It was removed more than a decade ago.
You don't like brussels sprouts.
John Doe 361 is named Rene Mouton.
I looked for something that wasn't there, which turned out to be a shunt channel.
I only thought of it because of Hodgins.
There's not really any such thing as spells and magic.
Do you believe in voodoo? Because even if a small part of you believes in it, then it has a grip.
A modicum of connective tissue indicates that, depending upon burial conditions, the remains are less than 200 years old.
What does this FBI agent want?
The pelvis tells us, female who has never given birth. The rupture of the third molar indicates adolescent.
We are identifying a m*rder v*ctim.
Why? You are a Botanist.
Cause of death: The sharp symmetrical traumas to both the right and left temporal bones. You can take the clothing and leave, now.
Naomi from Paleontology, suggests that Hodgins is like that because he needs to get laid. That means "engage in coitus".
The term is "nebula's".
Still an observation so vague as to approach meaninglessness.
I'd be happy to do that for you.
Then why posit it as a w*apon?
Whoa, whoa, whoa. Why are you the deliverer of the blow while I am the recipient?
What?!
Ow!
What!
Dr. Brennan. I found something interesting in the v*ctim x-rays.
Indicating that they may have been extracted during the as*ault.
Yes.
Thank you, Dr. Brennan. It's hard to move in this suit.
Recurring patterns, so either struck repeatedly with the same narrow w*apon or perhaps crushed beneath some kind of grid.
Of course, Dr. Brennan.
I'm trying to estimate the force needed to cause this damage to the v*ctim skull. I'm working up a chart of equivalents. Alligator bites have been measured at 2,000 lbs of force, hyena's at 1,000, sharks at 330. Whatever did this damage was somewhere between a human and a chimpanzee, meaning approximately 250 lbs of force.
I don't know what that means.
A sliding door?
260 force lbs. - give or take.
This is coffee.
Dr. Hodgins found microscopic fragments of steel and traces of lubricating oil.
One of them matched.
What is happening?
Are you Special Agent Booth?
I'm not familiar with that term.
This is proof that Federal Judge Myles Hasty m*rder Gemma Arrington.
It was immensely stupid of you to fire us.
I can only conclude that you are immensely stupid.
The Incan Ice Woman of Peru, the Tarim Basin mummies of China, the peat bog Tollund Man in Denmark.
Buttons, zipper, rivets. She's probably wearing jeans.
Shape of the innominate bone indicates female.
I will be the back end of a cow.
Naomi, from Paleontology, has agreed to be my front.
Ill-fated captain of the Titanic.
Dr. Brennan always wears the same costume to this things. She loves it.
Also used in mummification.
There is no bug or slime specific to church thrift stores.
I knew it wasn't bugs or slime.
It is not Megan Shaw.
Dental records do not match.
That's leaping to a conclusion.
Her phalanges, fingers, are broken. Metacarpals... cracked.
In Iraq, there were some remains. They'd been buried alive.
I'm not comfortable...
She pulled out her own hair?
I'm not prepared to...
I've identified stress fractures to both tibias, as well as tears to the medial collateral and anterior cruciate ligaments in both knees.
Compressions to vertebrae C1 through C7 indicate that her neck was bent like this.
It appears to be barbed.
Is there any correlation between these hairs and the fact that Stella Higgins scratched herself so badly, and pulled out her own hair?
Internal combustion engines.
Their metabolisms would race. Heart rates would accelerate dangerously.
Angela and Hodgins have a few things to show us before we go to the party.
He wants us to guess.
We do not guess.
Cow. I'm a cow. See my udder.
I'm worried that Naomi from Paleontology will feel strange being only the front half of a cow.
In comic books, it's always called a lair.
Assuming he needs to sleep.
Leaving six hours for travel and torture.
Too simplistic. If it's on a highway, it could be up to 120 miles away. Secondary roads, taking traffic patterns into account, less than 50. Depending on the time of day and weather conditions...
Thank you.
Thirty-one.
Yes, particulates plus mummification requires...
How is that not guessing?
I acknowledge Einstein as a scientific authority.
But he failed us this time.
Scraping, milling.
The b*mb is Caucasian, 5 feet 4, late teens/early 20s. Still no ID.
Ankylosis in the right trochlea and capitulum and scaphoid.
What do you want to know?
The expl*si*n shifted the placement of the teeth in the maxilla and mandible. I've repositioned them so that we can match the dentals. The computer is looking now. Why do you suddenly want to know everything?
My closest acquaintance outside work is a woman I know who's a performance artist. Last month, she enclosed herself in a plastic box with six rabbits. It went over quite well, perhaps you've heard of her?
Lisa Winokur.
Me neither.
No. Lisa Winokur's the woman in the chandelier.
If you'd like to know anything else-
So Lisa Winokur was not breathing when the fire started.
Where?
No, I mean, no condom?
If she was already dead when the fire started, what k*ll her?
I'll have to ascertain if these fractures were the result of heat, expl*si*n or trauma. Which means I need to know the exact nature of the expl*si*n.
The usual way.
There was liquor in the room. Paint, turpentine.
There was also petroleum distillate and six H.V.L.P. canisters hidden under traps.
I did the math very carefully . This experiment should generate an expl*si*n approximately 1/1000th the magnitude of the expl*si*n at the hotel.
1/1000th.
We can watch through this porthole.
Did they not hear me say I did the math quite carefully?
The math says there will be a ten to twelve second gap before the H.V.L.P. container explodes.
Ten, nine, eight...
Man!
I don't understand what happens.
That a blast that strong wasn't necessarily a b*mb.
The hyoid is cracked at the tips but not b*rned.
I also noticed a broken finger. I'm using those words especially for you, Booth.
Also, disjunct of acromion and coracoid with damage to the glenoid. Dislocated shoulder.
I thought that might be from the fire or expl*si*n.
You make a good point, I'll take another look.
Lisa Winokur's finger is broken.
This break was professionally set. It had started healing, I'd say around two weeks ago. And before I cleaned the bones, I noticed this metallic sheen. I thought it was a cheap ring, but it's aluminum. I think it was a splint.
I don't really do that, which is why I called you.
You're the one who said you have to be kept up to date on everything.
Thermal dislocation can be extremely deceptive. Typically heat causes short bones to move at the ends. These were split in the middle.
Whoa, what'd I do?
The ribs were not broken pre-explosion.
Whatever pierced the membrane was forced through the vertebrae.
No cuts on the bone, something softer than a blade.
It's as though Juan Ramos drove something into Lisa Winokur's back with his foot. Mm...like a golf tee?
Yeah.
Yes, I'm running dental records now, and Cam is finishing up the autopsy.
Yes. There was a lot of insect activity. Samples are at your workstation. Also, the extension cord that was used to tie him up, and everything that was on top of his desk.
We have a match. Confirmed. Terrance Bancroft.
Dr. Brennan saw a shadow on the x-rays. I removed the tissue from the bones and found a fungus.
The interior cervical vertebrae.
The jugular was cut, and the bl*od pooled here.
This is a dried fleck of India ink left in the v*ctim's trachea. It matches the ink on a Scrimshawed letter opener the FBI found at the scene.
These kerf marks are congruent with a double-edged blade, one side serrated, the other not.
Uh, both w*apon, bl*od spatter evidence... ANGELA:Right, trace evidence from the scene, the heroin, the sweatshirt ... I mean, we've covered it all.
Well...
Typical cadaver mold.
But there are a hundred and eight five strains of Aspergillus.
"Puddly?"
Aspergillus ustus.
Incalculable. Which is something I've never said before.
Who?
Yeah, wear to her right lateral epicondyle, and rotator cuff. Also, repetitive motion damage to the lower lumbar vertebrae.
Golf?
Shape suggests a tire iron.
Classic game theory. Throwing down of the gauntlet.
Conflict of interest arises followed by a series of moves from which divergent strategies can be discerned.
Zero sum, obviously. After a few moves, we'll know Epps's order of preference.
In a game, there tends to be one "N" rational players and a nonconscious, nondeliberative agent. What did Epps talk about before he said all the information you needed was in front of you?
Chronic masturbation. The game may be all about self-gratification.
The ... blonde is right in front of us.
This wrist looks completely normal.
The whole coloration is off. It's slightly greasy compared to the surrounding bone.
This hamate bone does not belong with these remains.
Round one ... goes to Howard Epps.
From me. I suggested that you be the smart one.
Well, we've made no progress on that.
What kind of a pet?
Colorless, unless it's exposed to ammonia.
It might be a win-win scenario for him. If his endgame is to disorient Doctor Brennan, he can do that by - - ruining evidence that he himself planted.
Not sure.
That's the cartographic symbol for a mine.
Lauren Hathaway was a nationally ranked junior golfer in 1997.
She disappeared on May ninth, after leaving the Southampton Country Club in Raleigh, North Carolina.
Her father is in your office.
You were on the phone.
Epps is good. Not morally, of course. But it's a classic feint-and-parry misdirect, delivered via his wife.
I had some thoughts. Perhaps the point isn't that German is a different language, but that it's actually a different language.
More broadly speaking, I mean, like an anagram or an inner or secret language. These are phrases I found in English. Perhaps in German...
"Are Inner Hit" could mean - - I don't really do the poetry thing.
One-dimensionality exists only in theory as a mathematical value.
I don't think we need it.
It makes me look like the Great Gazoo.
Can we please hurry up? It's stuffy in here.
I should be able to see any heat residue released from decomposing bodies.
I'm picking something up.
Oh my God.
You can turn on your flashlight. Aim it over there.
Epiphyseal fusion puts the age at approximately six to ten years, though the stature suggest younger.
Blunt trauma to the chest.
The v*ctim wasn't wearing them when he was k*ll.
What kind of food will there be?
The shuttle smells like feet.
Do I have to wear a tie?
Wait, you drive me to work. You can't just think of yourself.
Yes. I'm warming up the boiler now.
These are the smallest remains I've ever worked on.
Sorry, Dr. Brennan.
So, you're saying I'll get used to it?
So, I'm always going to feel terrible?
I am not good with metaphor, Dr. Brennan.
Details. Yeah, I can do that.
No trauma to the skull. No compound fractures. Charlie was not b*at to death or dismembered.
Greenstick fractures on ribs four, five, six, and seven. And the sternum is snapped transversally from the tip to the xiphoid.
The v*ctim's chest was struck by a heavy, blunt object.
I've been over everything at least three times.
Some kind of chemical. Chloroform. Something used to render the boy unconscious.
Who's more sensitive?
I never got the big attraction.
We cross-referenced the length and density of Charlie's leg bones with other children his age. The v*ctim, I mean.
The thing to do is concentrate on the details.
Also, the v*ctim's show freezing of the joints at the hip and knee.
The ribs are broken in two places, which is not typical of blunt-force trauma.
I'd attribute it to his medical condition and the corresponding brittleness of his bones.
It looks like scoliosis - a bend in the spine.
Dr. Brennan is having me check for hereditary genetic defects which are always passed from mother to child.
Try redigitizing and resizing.
What makes you say that?
I mean, what makes you think I know Hodgins better than anyone else?
I live above his garage.
Not really.
I've never been up to the main house.
It's at the opposite end of the driveway on the other side of the tennis courts across from pond.
There's a bedroom, living room, kitchen, another bedroom, a den, two bathrooms-
Including the antique ones, about twelve. And a boat.
Who are 'those' Hodginses?
The same Cantilever Group that generates more G.N.P. than Europe?
I mostly sleep. Hodgins mostly yells at the radio.
That's a workable idea.
What do we talk about?
Apparently all Angela needed was to hear her job description in a deep, African-American tone.
v*ctim had several antimortem fractures to his sternum as well as several antimortem fractures to the lateral sections of his ribs.
All healed at different times. I had a Michael Jackson glove. I've never mentioned that before.
I think I saw him in the video.
Here he is.
Organic matter.
The v*ctim also had a perimortem fracture on his wrist. There are indications of a grate to a chromioclavicular joint separation but it was certainly not lethal.
Violent students are the hallmark of a school yard. I speak from experience... However, these fractures on his ribs predate high school.
Dr. Saroyan. I found an anomaly on the v*ctim skull.
When I was cleaning the skull, I found a tiny irregularly on the under surface of the v*ctim mandible. Magnified, it proved to be a tiny, but sharply defined fracture. Judging by it's location, it appears that a w*apon was thrust into the neck, cutting through the sternocleidomastoid and severing both the corroded artery and jugular vein.
Judging by the microscopic crushing of the bone, the w*apon was neither too sharp nor too blunt. It certainly wasn't an edged w*apon.
Correct. However, it left an odd textural stain in the crevice. I've taken a sample and will hand it over to Hodgins for testing.
Uh, decomp, insect activity, volatile fatty acid levels in the soil due to putrefaction suggest she was buried for approximately six months.
Dental exam shows shoveled incisors and striated enamel.
Malnutrition. Which is consistent with anthropometrics suggesting the v*ctim is from Central America.
Depression fracture on her occipital bone straddling the left lamdoidal suture. Looks like one hard hit congruent with, say, a baseball bat.
No, just head trauma.
Subdural hematoma. The head wound caused internal bleeding, but death was not instantaneous.
But there's no sign of bone remodeling. She died soon after the as*ault. There's patterning on the ectocranial surface. Whatever w*apon was used, it left a mark.
Heart shaped pelvic inlet, long projections of bone into the rib cartilage suggest we have a male over sixty.
I think I just found it.
This is interesting.
This hole in the sternum, it's definitely not a g*n wound.
I found the same exact thing on the female v*ctim's sternum. It seemed like a meaningless anomaly.
Based on their ages, father and daughter.
Yeah.
We work the hard evidence.
I found something. I can't get this b*llet out of the pelvic bone.
The bone started healing around the b*llet. See the remodeling?
Metastatic carcinoma.
Step away, please. There are 80 in total. Note the conical shape.
Definitely a human foot.
We found a stab wound.
It's more of a puncture, really. In here among the bite marks just below her scapula. Angela doesn't like me being her superior.
Which is what a superior is.
We're trying to ID the w*apon.
That was my conclusion as well.
Increase magnification. Please. If you're ready. I don't mean to appear dictatorial.
Bits of gold foil embedded deep within bite marks along the T-11 and T-12 vertebrae.
More likely scenario has the gator's teeth piercing Judy's stomach.
How would someone eat gold?
The bones are dense with a high degree of robusticity.
My regimen is easily completed in my apartment. Treadmill for thirty minutes, a hundred sit ups, push ups, and leg lifts, and twenty minutes of free weights.
I'm deceptively strong.
C5, adjacent to the hyoid, seems to be shaved on its front.
Yes, like with a cheese slicer.
This doesn't look like it was caused by a kn*fe. There are no serrations. Even microscopic.
...A cheese slicer seems illogical under the circumstances. I'll start looking for alternatives.
I'm still looking. The shaving was wafer thin and conformed to the curvature -
as do I Hodgins.
Did you know that I sang too?
As a child.
My parents felt that singing lessons would help integrate me socially.
Yes. I was quite good. I received acclaim and a new stature amongst the parents of my peers.
My mother said they were jealous, and not to worry about it.
"Love is a many splendored thing! It's the April rose that only grows in the early spring..."
"...when your fingers touched my silent heart and taught it how to sing! Yes true love's, a many splendored thing!"
Thank you. I should get back to work now.
We need a w*apon!
Is there something you need?
Not for me. I'm always the one that gets k*ll.
You've seen something like this before?
A human being reaches terminal velocity after falling 200 to 220 meters depending upon air resistance. Velocity would be achieved between five and eight seconds depending upon atmospheric conditions, body position and clothing. He fell from a minimum of 1,200 feet. I can run through the math if you'd like.
Extremely porous bones.
I'd put him at a hundred and thirty.
He was in outer space.
The F.A.A. reports no recent accidents involving anyone falling from a plane, balloon or blimp. Commercial or otherwise.
Little green men?
If they'd dropped him from orbit, he'd have b*rned up and his loafers would've fallen off. If he was an abductee tossed out of an interplanetary spacecraft why do his bones show that he has spent an extended time in outer space? The only rational explanation is what he was an astronaut.
Astronauts lose two percent of their bone mass for each month spent in space. Our v*ctim's legs, hips and lower vertebrae have demineralized over twenty percent indicating ten months in space.
The longest shuttle flight was STS-80. 17.66 days in 1996.
The man who spent the most time in space was a Russian cosmonaut.
My knowledge is vast.
Now?
Do you need continued access to the soft issue?
Ah, so you need more time with the soft tissue to answer that?
Please explain to me your reluctance to remove the flesh from the bones.
Was, you mean.
What does that have to do with removing the flesh from his bones?
Thank you.
I beg your pardon, Dr. Saroyan?
Help yourself.
Definitely human.
These bones are as human as you are.
There's a strange callus formation of his right femoral head. Also bone marrow edema in the same spot.
No. It's some sort of tuberous cortical defect. I've never seen anything like this before.
I have to get Dr. Brennan to take a look at this.
All the supplements he was taking before his last space mission.
What is it?
I never saw anything on the X-rays.
Scleractinia has a calcium carbonate exoskeleton with porosity similar to human bone.
So it wouldn't show up on X-rays.
Suspended in a biphasic hydroxyapatite tri-calcium phosphate coating.
And electromagnetic device implanted to accelerate growth.
The main obstacle to long-term space travel is bone demineralization.
It was seeded with resin beads on glass plates.
I searched the literature. There's a number of clinics and researchers working on bone replacement. The doctor most likely to have performed this procedure on our v*ctim is Dr. Henry Pascal.
Why?
Every bone showed trauma.
Ripped. Every seam pulled apart.
And if you isolate the bone damage caused by a device capable of making robust cuts in a linear path...
Chopped?
Bone damage. He was chopped.
An ax or a hatchet or a machete make sharp, well-defined cuts. These edges are abraded.
A broadsword?
No. Those can cut through any known substance. The v*ctim would've been completely dismembered.
I didn't say an actual broadsword. I said like a broadsword. It was the closest analog I could access.
Traces are left when the w*apon cuts deeply into the bone. Whatever this was wasn't very sharp. Left nothing behind.
You cannot see smell. The v*ctim was struck four times.
The blow to the head is what k*ll him.
The blade was moving at a velocity of approximately a hundred and sixteen meters per second.
At full speed, the tips approach the speed of sound.
There are pusher propellers.
Dr. Brennan?
Dr. Brennan?
Buttercup. If you sign off on these tissues markers, Angela can finish the facial reconstruction.
What's up, buttercup is an amusing, rhyming, linguistic meme. This is the latest Jane Doe from Limbo.
There are thousands of human remains down there waiting to be identified. Limbo seems an appropriate name.
Yes. I also have three -
..Three bags of soil samples from where the remains were buried.
My theory. Caffeine intolerance.
Jane Doe, Number 129-0998.
"In September of 1998, a grave-digging crew at the Sunset Memory Cemetery in Salisbury, Pennsylvania, uncovered human remains in a completely advanced stage of decomposition." BOOTH: Is it from a grave?
No. It appears that somebody just dug a hole at the edge of the cemetery and...plopped the body in there.
Sorry. "The local coroner found no obvious evidence of foul play and sent the remains, a few artifacts and soil samples to the Jeffersonian, hoping we could identify her. Technically, you mother's been at the Jeffersonian as long as you have.
Sorry. But they both got here in 1998.
That's congruent with , uh, P.H. in the soil, climate and degree of decomp BRENNAN: No. Seven years. It should be seven years.
The whole lab? For what?
Yes. Dr. Brennan.
Left side, extending from the coronal suture, crossing the superior and inferior temporal lines to the squamosal suture Subdural hematoma. Whoo! A big one. Dr. Brennan?
There are no indications of a blow to the outer skull.
I don't actually have a tranquilizer g*n...
Dr. Brennan, is it morning?
We're all here. No one's leaving until we figure out what happened to your mother.
Don't thank me. I'm failing. I've gone over every millimeter of the skull and found no evidence of remodeling., which makes no sense because any wound that results in a subdural hematoma that big should leave a mark on the living bone.
And grew over time?
And the blow itself might not have left a mark on the bone.
Hundred times magnification.
Microscopic fractures of the osteons and is that the result of bleeding into the interstitial spaces? I can map the fractured osteons. That might lead us to the w*apon.
This is the pattern of fractured osteons.
I Isolated the most fractures osteons and this pattern emerges.
Seven tire irons. None of them match the wound, even allowing for shrinkage.
It's not right to discuss tapping asses in front of a soaker.
I'm Dr. Addy. Are you one of those priests who smacks school children with rulers?
There's evidence of trauma to the frontal bone. Looks like a fatal as*ault.
The v*ctim is thirty to forty years old.
There's evidence of bl*od pooling on the frontal bone, and an absence of concentric fractures. That requires investigation.
Death would have followed quickly, caused by cranio-cerebral trauma.
I've identified some odd post-mortem injuries on the old bodies. Snapped fingers, fractured wrists, abrasions on the ligamentum flava.
The person who ruptured the water main that night was a grave robber. Dr Brennan told me she saw injuries like this in Tibet. Broken bones and bone markings from yanking jewellery and valuables off the remains.
There are greenstick fractures on the v*ctim's left ulna, as well as his fibula and some ribs.
There's no evidence of a struggle. These seem to have occurred post-mortem when he was dragged, probably for burial. But even getting dragged over rocks shouldn't have caused those fractures. The matrix of the bone was weakened. The cause could be genetic.
The green bone response indicated that the injury was inflicted peri-mortem. That means he might have already been dead when he was struck.
Osteoporosis.
Amy Cullen's file states the donor of the bone was 25 years old .
I've seen progerian skeletons. This isn't one of them.
How old do you think the donor really was?
I only see secondary. Exactly what you'd expect to see in an older decedent.
Cancer consistent with morphology origin in the pleura, most likely mesothelioma.
She went in for a broken leg and was poisoned.
This will k*ll Amy Cullen.
Kelly DeMarco, age 32, dead of lung cancer two months ago.
When your number's up, I guess, right? I never understood that saying 'when your number's up.' Numbers and equations are quantitative and predictable. Everyone knows when a number's up.
It's amazing how quickly this spread. The grafts went into this woman's body and within weeks, the cancer cells metastasized to her lungs. By then, the disease was unstoppable.
There are 206 bones in the human body, Agent Booth. Of those, any number of them are graftable.
Agent Booth, the records you've been waiting for.
Probably all from the same donor.
Got names and addresses on all of them.
We've traced all these grafts back to the donor and still know almost nothing.
And the non-elevated auricular surface.
The osteon count in the femoral joint confirms the donor was over sixty.
Osteophytosis with narrowing of intervertebral spaces indicates consistent heavy lifting. Construction worker?
I'm on it.
Extremely low levels of fluoride in the cancellous bone.
There's a Teflon plant in Parkersburg, West Virginia.
Wasn't there a problem about 15 years ago at Brant's Cliff Power Facility?
Dr. Brennan, I'm at Lester Blake's exhumation. I've examined the remains.
There's no sign of body tampering, and it's clear his casket hasn't been open since his burial.
I sifted dust particles through a series of filters then separated the larger pieces and magnified them to compare the osteons .
I am comparing particles to the biopsy we excised from Kelly DeMarco .
There's bone dust from at least seven other bodies in that vent filter as well.
Except for the tainted samples, these bone grafts are expertly harvested.
Incise cuts on the left radius and ulna are congruent with defensive injuries.
The bones probably remind him of Waitomo Cave.
Yes, that's where he was going to take Angela for their honeymoon. If she'd said yes. Which she didn't.
A luminescent bacteria?
Sushiguy23 was telling the truth.
I compared the hairline fracture on Carly's skull to the damaged dashboard. The fracture was the result of her head smashing into it. Haemorrhaging indicates it was antemortem.
I took a second look at Carly's cervical vertebrae. The damage matches an acceleration flexion-extension neck injury.
Exactly.
Abby's boyfriend?
The m*rder w*apon was a ceramic bowl?
Me either.
The injuries fit if Abby was driving when the sudden stop occurred.
Why am I always the m*rder v*ctim?
The concussion disorients me.
I was wearing a punk bracelet, lots of metal.
That could easily fracture the scaphoid.
I don't think this is necessary.
You're always taking skulls and putting on faces. Can't you simply reverse the process?
I have an idea for the face, if you can remove the head from the rest of the skin sack.
Essentially, all we have to do is fill the empty head.
Which is literally what we did.
Uh, boiled leather, immersed in water, would tend to stretch then contract as it dries. Maybe the principle applies.
Dr. Sayroyan? The face debacle taught me a lesson. I'm strictly a bone guy, like Dr. Brennan.
A patella?
A bone! Something we can work with.
To you it's a knee cap. To Dr. Brennan? It's the best part of a human being.
Frontal spurring.
A lot of time spent on the knees.
No. The tendon attachments on the inside of the patella also suggest squatting. Which is not nun like behavior.
The density of secondary osteon structures, suggest the v*ctim was in her early 20's at the time of her death.
Square rather than triangular. Classic nail-patella syndrome.
Angela said the v*ctim hair suggested Asian.
Wow. Dr. Brennan really likes that boat.
Stage three sarcoma, M1 metastasis.
Yes. Most likely it spread from prostate or testicular cancer.
If this is the groom, then he's Chinese. And according to Dr. Shi, most likely related, in some way, to the old lady - who kept him in a pot.
William Cheng. Single. Age 27. Died 2 years ago of metastasizing prostate cancer. Great nephew of Mei Zheng.
Positive I.D. On both sets of remains. William Chang and Li Ling Fan.
The cut on the skeletal structure by the removal of soft tissue match the implements the FBI confiscated from the mortuary.
Any one of them could've removed the bones and sank the skin in the river. Personally, I would have cremated the remaining skin and organs.
Probably the, uh, bouncing, flying mail order husband. Does that count as whimsy?
Why is Doctor Brennan the official custodian?
Prodigious saliva production.
The v*ctim exhibits enlarged hypertrophic lesions and multiple muscle attachments.
I assume pink isn't a normal color for this type of thing.
No, but I'm not an infant.
Actually, one time when I was visiting my cousins, we ate a lot of beets, and the next day-
Why does he have phenobarbital in his system?
Perhaps the infant is epileptic.
I made some discoveries regarding our v*ctim. Is this a good time?
Oh-kay.
Doctor Addy.
Oh. Is this a better time?
Then why'd you call back?!
I believe you are.
Our v*ctim had healed compression fractures in her L1 and L2 vertebrae.
No. Malnourishment. She also has some minor deformities, including a slight bowing of the legs and bony outgrowths at a number of muscle attachments.
No. Just the phenobarbital.
The fragments inside the g*n's barrel are bone.
In the head. Brain tissue on the fragments means they're from a frontal bone.
If she did, then why would she put the g*n in a safety deposit box? It's not logical.
What do you mean?
What's going on?
Was it fun coming to the club?
Seems so primitive. Being in a crowd of strangers, gyrating to music.
I've been told I look like a marionette in a windstorm.
Really?
Light. This leads to the outside.
We're better at this than you think.
You trying to scare us with rats? We've been to places where the rats eat the laces right out of our boots.
There are the footprints. There are marks on the wall, it's scraped.
Yes.
Some damage to the facet joint and foramen on C-4 on the right side of the neck.
One other thing. I was looking at the skull through the microscope. I came across a slight depression, barely discernible .
Could it be congenital or a bone anomaly?
I take my vacation when you take your vacation.
Go back home to Michigan, see the family. I have three brothers and four sisters.
God, no. I made the mistake of telling them I work with corpses and skeletons-they think I'm a freak.
It's my family. They love me.
Dental records confirm that this is Eve Warren.
They're up in the lounge.
We've already got cause of death and identity. What am I looking for?
Dr. Brennan, I found a mark on Eve Warren. Here, on the manubrium .
Looks like a match.
As hard as he can? Why don't I hit him as hard as I can?
Is that all you got, burly boy?
My chest hurts.
They found him laying in the bathroom.
Yelped, not screamed.
I was taken aback!
Yelped!
A Persian named Ara Something wants to buy the nightclub JARED: Arastoo Vaziri?
Bren's met with him about forty times. Mr. B does not want to sell.
There's a bl*od stain on the bathroom wall, VINCENT: Yeah, someone smashed the v*ctim's head against the wall, knocked him out, then came back and finished him off with a sh*t to the chest. A very cold-blooded execution, in fact.
How did you know that?
Why do you have a g*n?
Why would the m*rder hide the g*n in your stuff?
You mean we should get rid of it?
Why not?
Then, whatta we do?
Yes. Someone stole my shoes.
Sweets found your coat.
It was jammed into a case of premium gin. He brought it to me. I found the b*llet hole.
I've learnt a lot from Mr. Hodgins' books.
They appear to be fighting.
Dr. Brennan?
Someone left a package for you.
Tooth marks.
Is it a cake or a pickle?
That I understand. Cakes and pickles mean nothing to me.
It appears to have been boiled.
The marks on the mandible definitely indicate that the bones have been gnawed on.
The markings were made by someone wearing dentures.
But not normal commercial dentures you get from the dentist.
These dentures were homemade.
Dr. Saroyan. Regarding the denture medium, if we recreate the process-
This thermoplastic has a melting point of approximately 1800 degrees Fahrenheit. This would work better if we created a paste from the monomer and polymethylmethacrylate powder HODGINS: That would entail the complicated use of cosolvents to allow copolymerization without substantial phase separation. Monomers melting point is far below the polymethylmethacrylate.
Yes. I believe so. The mold is over there on the side table.
No. I'll mix it in. Please hand me the monomer, then the mold.
Since I became the uncontested "King of the Lab".
Is Hodgins okay?
That would be impossible, Agent Booth. The damage is-
In addition, the trapezoid and hamate on my left hand are-
I know that I can still be quite useful. Mentally, I"m still exceptional and with prosthesis-
Quite severely injured. Are you alright?
I just added the 3 grams of monomer.
No. Just simple phenylethene.
Well, that's not necessary.
Thank you, Dr. Brennan.
Drugs give me bad dreams.
I'm walking somewhere and suddenly someone takes me by the hand and I look and it's the skeleton. And the skeleton's on fire and my hands hurt.
I've been thinking about the expl*si*n, Hodgins. No one could have switched the chemicals. I locked up the container when I left the room. I had the only - key. You - would know but you - I'm afraid the pain k*ll work pleasant on my intellect.
What's it say after "boolean forms"?
It doesn't to you?
You looked at the mandible.
I didn't foresee the extent of my injuries. I was going to sneak out of here but -
Hodgins argued with me. He stood too close. The delay allowed the thermoplastic to reach the boiling point and as a result, the expl*si*n was three times more powerful than I calculated.
Yes.
That's not what he's called.
The Master.
I can't tell you. The apprentice is expendable. I'm expendable.
The Master's logic is irrefutable.
If you knew what I know, you'd understand. You'd be proud of me.
With all due respect, you aren't cognizant of his logic.
Accepted. Hodgins has been explaining this to me for years.
Accepted.
Accepted.
Yes.
There's - You are correct. There is an inconsistency in my reasoning.
He first approached me three months ago at a symposium on burning plasma diagnostics.
I don't know his name. I've never known his name but I've been to his house. I was blind folded when he first took me there.
But I remember every turn he took and I was able to estimate his speed. So when he brought me home, I found it on a map. It's in Bedding Ridge on a street called Savoy Crescent. It's a big place, almost as big as Hodgins' house but run down. There's a flight of stairs at the back - outside. There's a blue door. It'll be locked but there's a key hidden in the crevice to the left of the door just above eye level. You will see a hallway. If he's found someone, you will smell meat cooking and that's how you'll know you're getting close. One last door, and you'll have to be fast. He'll be at the bottom of an incline in the floor. He'll have a kn*fe. He's very fast. And he's very strong.
The accelerant was charcoal starter.
I'm on it.
He made 46.4% of his three point attempts in his last season.
Did you see the game against North Carolina?
Fifty-three points, and he grabbed 18 rebounds.
Sorry. Cleaning.
He was protesting?
The opening in the skull where the auditory nerves feed into the brain.
There are signs of additional damage on C-1 at the base of the skull.
This mark couldn't have come from the as*ault inside the cranium.
Looks like a dimple in the bone. Could be genetic.
We should get magnification of the area to determine what else could've caused it.
There's also some discoloration. You should do some scrapings to see what it might be.
The scrapings?
Dr. Brennan, the military delivered all the paperwork you requested. Private Kent's autopsy report is careless and incomplete. There was no incison, no X-rays. So there's no way to confirm the amount of b*ll*ts he was hit with.
I could've done better with a Crayola.
The X-rays show that six of the b*ll*ts are still in the remains.
We're still working on the bone dimple on his neck.
That's all of them.
But he wasn't leaning against wood when he was sh*t. He was in the middle of the room.
The missing round passed through him and into the wood floor.
It was a nine-inch surgical curette like this.
Your estimate was correct. This hole is consistent with a 22-caliber slug. I learned slug from Cam; it's a colloquialism for projectile.
I provided you with the tissue markers for a ten-year-old Caucasian female.
Because art made science her bitch?
That's a scientific rational for rechecking.
No wisdom teeth suggest pre-pubescence, the lower plate in the radius? Not fused.
Umm...
The arthritic lipping on the vertebrae, degeneration on the collarbone, spiking on the superior articular process, and all the major bones in her body show osteolitis and advanced deterioration.
Meaning you are not wrong, which is not the same as being right.
Things aren't always either or, sometimes their both.
When do I have to decide?
Yes HODGINS: Fine, let me know what you decide. CYNTHIA: You found her in a shopping cart?
There's a recalcification around this hole. It healed.
The president is asking for me personally.
He says I'm at the forefront of my field, he says my country needs me.
No.
Because if I decide to do what the president wants and I get k*ll in Iraq you won't be able to remember your wedding with happiness.
Rationally speaking I'm not good at social ritual, you should ask Booth.
It should be. I no longer believe this is a b*llet hole, I believe this was created by a drill.
Also known as fairy shrimp.
That's not human, that's Spam.
Commonly referred to as Sea Chimps.
Permission.
What?
I found that anti-climactic.
have you been to Iraq?
Does it hurt to get sh*t?
I've been blown up, that wasn't as bad as I expected, but I've never been sh*t.
Booth?
Is there any sense in ducking when someone sh**t at you?
you can read this later, then explain it to everyone.
He's in good shape.
Didn't you use to be an Archeologist?
Kid gloves?
I decided to give it a sh*t, which is also metaphoric.
A feel?
sixty-five million years. That was a pretty good come back.
Why would he do that?
I have no idea what's going on between you two right now.
Yes, Dr. Brennan. I'm looking at the x-rays you beamed me.
Hodgins got the clothing remnants and silt this morning.
Here, Dr. Brennan.
Early twenties from the look at the x-rays.
I see evidence of stabbing. One hit to the sternum, two to the p*stol cartilages.
Degradation of the remains suggests the body was left out in the open between a week and ten days and the marks on the bones suggest carnivorous feeding beyond insects, birds, and rodents.
They have coyotes?
That explains the dispersal of remains. A pack of coyotes finds the body, pulls it apart, and spreads out to eat in solitude.
The jaw has been broken and reset, same with the right leg. Have you seen any movie stars yet?
Apparently, it's a contest when you go to LA in which the winner is the person who sees the most celebrities.
Dr. Brennan, one of these x-rays shows two dark clumps near the pelvis.
Do you think she swallowed that?
He was in his mid-thirties when he died. He was 1.88 meters tall.
Looks like Tuberculosis.
I liked that movie.
I have something for you.
No.
It's the Hollywood m*rder v*ctim.
What's with Goodman and Hodgins?
Lay what out on the table and measure?
I'm a guy.
You know one thing.
She's going to be beautiful. Why would anyone go through all this pain and not end up beautiful?
One of them. The other I'll look up.
Cranial measurements are congruent with age and sex as Celts and Pre-Aryans.
If we could remove the clothing and take a closer look at the bones.
Hey!
Zack Addy. I live to serve.
You need to know if this procedure is recognized and sanctioned by the American Medical Association.
All the osteological perjovations are consistent with recent elective surgeries except the compound fractures in the right tibia and fibula which indicate traumatic compression and...
I analyzed the molars. Oxygen and stranti mysotopes in enamel indicate early childhood in New England while the dentin suggests six to ten years in southern California.
What's a classic?
Did I hear you say hooker?
Even though on x-rays it looks at though the head is properly attached to the spinal cord. We could actually go in and look, confirm the authenticity.
You know what would be better put them on the table and measure, Alright?
Maybe it's not a kn*fe; maybe it's some kind of sharpened screwdriver. Why are you being so mean to Dr. Goodman?
Why are you being so critical of his process?
Because it's more torsion in the cut then a flat bladed kn*fe could bear without snapping. It twists without breaking. The k*ll would have to be incredibly strong and even then the blade would snap.
What?
This is the type of situation where people say oh my God.
Oh my God.
The m*rder w*apon is a larger version of the surgical implement used on the v*ctim's jaw.
It was Hodgins. Well Hodgins quoting you so it was us. Go team. But get this according to the National Plastic Surgery Association, there's only one surgeon who does this procedure.
He's in LA.
My technique preserves bone surface morphology, through the use of polyvinyl replication. A transparent positive is made by covering the impression with an aqueous solution of synthetic polymer.
So far, they don't like me.
Next question?
What?
I rectified their erroneous assumptions concerning polyvinyl replication.
Only when they were wrong. Are the remains ready for x-ray?
"My name is Garrett Delaney" CAM: There's something metallic here. This is going to turn out to be some freaky, weird ritualistic thing, isn't it?
Christopher Colombus.
Her brother came for a visit.
Definitely. I hope to keep working here when I receive my Doctorate.
What did she mean when she said "How do you expect anyone to take you seriously?" ANGELA: It's a comment on - your deportment.
Dr. Brennan doesn't care about deportment...
In your opinion, does deportment matter to Cam?
This was lodged in Garret Delaney's sinus cavity BRENNAN: .22 caliber.
These dimples - indicate that the b*llet ricocheted around inside the cranium.
No. Dr. Grayson touched me with an open hand on the shoulder.
No. I read a book on body language. Apparently, in our culture when an older male lays an open hand on a younger male, it conveys approval but if he bumps younger male with a closed fist - it conveys doubt. Dr. Grayson, went like this , not like this . Like this . Not like this .
As you can see, Harper's ribs and sternum were practically obliterated by the two shots to his torso.
The b*ll*ts themselves, removed from the body - of course, but Hodgins found some very small fragments-
I assume the only way Booth can get his car back, would be to solve the case on his own and that we'd help.
Alright. I reversed engineered to find the most likely design of the b*ll*ts. After the b*llet spread, lead pellets were released - like buckshot.
Dr. Saroyan? When I get my Doctorate...I'd like to work - here.
Ooh, what?
I need a makeover.
Yes, I've been told that many times usually followed by the word but and in this case "but no one takes you seriously. I need help, Angela. So what do I do first?
I can learn how to be effective in front of juries...
The diner.
I like the diner!
Thank you, Dr. Brennan.
