Any answers? Hope you enjoyed your 15 minutes of fame people, 'cause we have a psycho on the loose, so it's back to work. I photograph well. Okay. So what have we got?
I agree. But, he's not. He's out and that means more v*ctim unless we stop him first, which we will do. Or, there'll be another article written about us that won't be so kind. Where's Dr. Brennan?
Turning and walking away. I.D. the remains.
Hey, did the wife you anything?
You think Epps is gonna come after Brennan?
I'll take care of it.
Are you inviting me over?
Leave it to a serial k*ll to spoil the mood.
I'm glad you're on my side, Seeley.
Definitely human. Adult. DNA can give us sex.
That's if this heart's from the same v*ctim as the bone dust. What? What is it?
So did I. I-I'll take care of it.
What?
Then we'll make sure nothing else happens.
There are cut marks on both sides of the inferior vena cava and connecting arteries. The heart was cut out using shears or scissors.
No sign of blunt force trauma to the skull - Epps usual M.O. No clear cause of death.
I'm seeing some kind of white powder in her hair. Hodgins can tell us what it is. Why just leave her head?
It's too early to tell.
This is my autopsy. We're gonna do it by the book. That means surface exam followed by x-rays after which I will open the skull.
Okay. That's terrifically disturbing.
Massive bl*od aspiration to the soft tissue of the neck.
Caroline Epps was alive when Howard cut her head off.
I thought Epps hated his mother.
Well that's sick.
Something was inserted in Caroline's ear. Epps made an incision in Caroline's left ear canal, inserted a token for a kid's ride from a place called Hillside Park.
No.
You've been in her every 10 minutes since they left. I will let you know when I'm finished.
No. We have these protocols for a reason. A telephone rings. Saroyan.
I just finished telling Zack . . .
Parker.
You're upset.
Get me the number two saw. I found some bruising to the back of her head. I'm gonna cut below it so I don't disturb the area.
Me too.
Protocol.
Why can't I breathe?
Zack?
Not your fault. Epps did this to me.
Oh, God. And I thought poison . . . was my biggest problem.
Seeley.
Don't call me Camille.
Like I got poisoned by a disembodied head full of plaster dust.
You'd think someone who could squeeze up and down chimneys would find the sewer a snap.
The huge bacterial count and unseasonably warm weather, explains why the rats found him so digestible.
Busiest shopping district during the busiest shopping season.
Cynicism from you at Christmas? What happened.
That sucks, majorly.
Well, the beard looks real and he's pretty fat.
Well, let's not jump to conclusions.
We'll send his gloves to the FBI Crime Lab, see if they can get any finger prints from the inside.
So Santa was definitely m*rder. Someone did not like their present.
Children, Dr. Addy. It's for children.
Which I'd like to get off of him after you two finish your scraping and - not that that isn't all very, very important.
Okay, first of all - children are not stupid, they're just children. Second, Santa - is magic. Let's identify the v*ctim, shall we?
Alright, alright. Very funny, boys.
Based on the degree of bloating and purged fluids, I'd estimate time of death between 72 and 96 hours ago. Check the sewer sledge and bugs, give me confirmation.
This is not "Miracle on 34th Street".
FBI lab got partial prints off the gloves and AFIS found a possible match. Apparently, our v*ctim worked for the school board.
No. He was a Santa Claus.
Check out his name.
According to AFIS, it's his legal name.
This staining suggests that his superficial temporal artery was punctured.
So Santa was conked on the head. Question is, with what?
So, what are you doing for Christmas.
Family cruise.
You'd think so. Let me know what you find.
This is why Booth hates talking to you.
Not you specifically, lab people. What's, uh, Aerodramus fuciphagus?
So our v*ctim was in China?
He sat in it.
How common is this dish?
Let's see who makes it here in DC.
You found what k*ll Kris Kringle?
Something crescent shaped and brass.
A circle, not a crescent.
A bell. A brass bell.
All similar injuries to Roberts.
Just ship both sets of remains here. Along with bugs, dirt, the works. If there's a forensic link to those m*rder we'll find it.
As if we could actually keep you out.
Gesundheit!
From ingesting Billie's flesh?
Be sure to notify Doctor Brennan when you do. Any specifics on the bat used to k*ll Roberts yet, Zack?
Vertebra c7. Are those cut marks?
She displays a hemathorax in her left lung.
And between her pre-existing injuries and the new ones, the poor girl never had a chance to heal.
What are you thinking Dr. Brennan?
But wouldn't boxing gloves prevent injuries like these?
Of the thirty bl*od samples found at the body shops, 6 were A positive. Same as Billie Morgan. Still waiting on DNA.
We get the idea, Zack. Lots of fights.
I'd rather Zack focus on our second w*apon for Roberts.
You mean a garrotte?
Dr. Brennan. Judging by the angle of the blows, Billie's last opponent was 5'6" and left handed.
Okay, Marisol. You're not under arrest. You're just here as evidence. So when this nice agent leaves you here-
Honey, I'm from the Bronx. Don't, for a second, think you scare me.
Well, if that's true, let's go over the scanner and prove it.
Hodgins.
bl*od pools in recent injuries. Thermal imaging records that. Now, we're gonna match your injuries against Billie Morgan's.
Force and velocity match patella damage to Marisol's left knee.
More damage to the scapula.
And we have another match.
You can deny it all you want. We've got the evidence right here.
You can say that again?
We missed it. The fatal blow was obscured by all her other injuries. Marisol cracked Billie's ribs, but not hard enough to puncture the lung. It was a bat. The same baseball bat that k*ll the federal prosecutor.
At this point, we haven't been able to determine gender.
But how? I haven't seen a fire hot enough to do this.
I think I found that.
We presumed the v*ctim died in a fire.
But, you don't have that clearance yet and this is very expensive equipment, which I am responsible for.
Maybe.
I know, Ms. Wick.
Perhaps you could focus on how we're going to identify the v*ctim.
Okay. Just once. But, be careful!
Booth talked to the owner of the truck, Jesse Wilson. Wilson ID'd the v*ctim as George Lyford.
Wilson claims the v*ctim had been fighting with his wife about money. One week ago, the wife took out an insurance policy on George's life.
Tox screen from the tissue on the foot showed no signs of drugs or alcohol.
Hank raised Booth after his father left. Seeley would do anything for him.
There were also elevated levels of leptin in the tox screen.
This woman's a size 4, tops.
If Meg was thin, why so much ash?
So now we're looking at a double m*rder.
We know that Meg Tracy weighed about 120 which puts our second v*ctim at 260.
So the cake on the table was probably his.
You can get the second v*ctim's height from bone fragments?
We know that our v*ctim was approximately 260 pounds.
5'5", 260. That's a start. I'll tell Booth.
There was a cake next to them. Could the injury be caused by a kn*fe?
It's a nose.
So it's definitely him? Any markers on the fragments that could help Angela ID a w*apon?
Huh. Have you gone through them all?
Excellent. Oh. And I have to say, I was pleasantly surprised yesterday that you felt relaxed enough to talk about your grandfather.
I realize that. I do.
Of course. Then carry on.
I'm sure he'd be very proud.
A surgical means of losing weight.
Woah. Meg used her roommate's insurance. Bet Stephanie was pretty mad about that.
And the blows were sufficient to render them unconscious.
The reason why the image looked like a nose was because it was a nose. The v*ctim was b*at with one of these heads.
So it wasn't about who was having sex, but about where they were having sex.
Howard catches Meg and Hugo having sex in his bed.
You're late.
What's going on?
Booth?
The door was locked.
Especially lugging 190 pounds of unconscious Booth.
The Gravedigger wanted evidence. What evidence?
What is that?
An FBI psychologist. Dr. Sweets, get, gone, now.
Booth only has 19 hours.
Seagulls?
That merry-go-round... The boardwalk! King's Beach Boardwalk.
Woahhh. What? FBI?
Somehow I don't think the Gravedigger is going to take that...
...into consideration.
Let's be clear here...
...What we intend to do next constitutes felony conspiracy.
Rigor indicates he's been dead less than 24 hours. About the same time Booth disappeared.
Two full thickness burns to the posterior triangle of the neck corresponding with a high-amperage stun g*n.
You're going to get in trouble, Jared. Definitely lose your job.
Caused fatal fibrillation, that would be cause of death.
Our v*ctim got a piece of the bad guy.
Then what do we do?
Follow me.
Evidence is being compiled against you Ms. Taffet. Tell us where Agent Booth is. You don't want another m*rder on your head.
Back to work.
Talk to me while you analyze.
Indicating it was worn how recently?
Run it through the Mass Spec See if there's anything special about that paint.
So she was on a Navy vessel within the last 24 hours?
What? Strangers on our forensic platform?
This is not a competition.
No. It's not a competition between us and Brennan. This is just an unfortunate situation.
Okay. Prosecution briefing in 20 and Caroline does not tolerate tardiness.
None whatsoever.
Then don't put me on first thing in the morning.
You have to.
Clean and detached, people. Just the way Dr. Brennan likes it.
DNA analysis proved the bl*od was Deputy Director Kirby's. A sharp instrument was inserted here puncturing the sternocleidomastoid and cutting the carotid artery.
In order to create a bl*od puddle this large, the body would have to lay there for between three to five minutes.
It turned out to be the v*ctim's intestines. The abdomen had been slashed open.
Why?
It's what Booth does. Keeps the other team honest. He's what you call an enforcer.
Yeah, okay. Well, let's go with that.
It's called a penalty box, you know, send in.
It definitely is not.
Come on, Booth!
Well, it's not Booth I'm worried about.
I like it just a little too much.
Based on decomp, I'd put time of death at about five days prior to freezing.
Your alibi is that you were seeing double and being taken care of by your mother.
No. Drowning's not the way Booth would k*ll someone. Not that I actually suspect Booth. At all. Quit staring at me.
As though he'd fallen to his knees?
During a hockey game?
Penetration of the lachrymal sac here, deep into the inferior orbital fissure.
No sign of b*llet fragments.
Yes. The last of the tissue samples. Wendell can clean the skeleton now and you can do your thing.
Yes, but since we found no b*llet, nor any indication of g*n residue in the wound, we're stumped as to what kind of projectile.
Well, he was a hockey player.
And I love it.
And thank God you're here.
He was k*ll, then dumped in the ocean then dumped in the lake?
It's the one Booth played at.
Any luck with the m*rder w*apon?
Well, the bl*od on the v*ctim's jersey was all his own.
I was signalling you to encourage Wendell by saying anyone could've missed that, but...
This is all the ice from the crime scene, including the scrapings from the Zamboni.
It's hockey. That Zamboni probably had a hundred teeth in there.
Preliminary DNA tests show that the bl*od mixed in with the v*ctim's did not belong to Lou Herrin.
All that means is that you got your brains scrambled for nothing.
Please don't call my people idiots.
You don't speak right now-- neither of you. It's a crime scene. My people are very often at crime scenes. It's what we do.
No chain of evidence was broken. When Dr. Hodgins and Mr. Bray found the items, they immediately called me. I called Booth, and when his head hurt too much to talk to me, I called Agent Perotta.
Okay. Now you are straying out of your territory.
Decomposition's almost complete. I don't know how I can separate the organic material from the chocolate.
Gasses that would normally be released into the air during decomposition were trapped in the hard chocolate, reducing the soft tissue to a putrid fluid.
This is an awful lot of chocolate to pour.
How long did it take to set?
I'll tell you one thing I've noticed. That I'm sort of off chocolate.
Was he a good pope or a bad pope?
Oh, no. Of course not.
It was more than just a game. Mr. Nigel-Murray won almost a million dollars.
That's an understatement. Hey, rugal folds. Found a piece of stomach.
Lungs? There are no lungs.
But let's call it m*rder just for fun.
Johns Hopkins. Almost forgot that. Another one for Michelle's short list.
Marine Biology, Art History, Russian Literature...she's kind of all over the place. She's actually going to be here in a few minutes so we can go over our application strategies.
Didn't I say that?
Just don't lose the chocolate.
I sense a mess in our future. Speaking of which, I need to get cleaned up for Michelle.
You so much as mention leaving the country to my daughter, and I will choke you on your own trivia and stuff your lifeless body in a locker.
Now, I know I promised that the decision was yours and yours alone, but I did send away for a few catalogs just to give you a sense of your options.
Now, with your grades and SAT scores, plus extracurriculars, I truly think you have a sh*t at getting into any one of these schools. The trick is gonna be the essay question, and then talk about personal interviews later...
Your top choice? That's great. Why don't we do this in tiers? Top choice, reach schools, safeties-
Wellesley?
Excuse-Central...Maine? That-that's a...
I am not familiar with that university, but um, then again, I don't know much about the center of Maine.
General Studies.
Ah. Derrick.
I like Derrick, Michelle. I do. But this is your future. It's important.
Yes, but when I see that you might be making a mistake-
Unconditionally?
I'm sorry. Let's talk about-
But everyone already knows.
Oh, no. No one did.
Sounds like a plan.
Wait. Founding Fathers? I love Founding Fathers! How was that? Convincing?
Ooh, stop! Turn the lamps off. Turn the lamps off.
I was going over Angela's 3-D images of the remains, and I found something. Okay. See these circles?
It's bubbles in the chocolate. Two big bubbles, trapped right here, 25 and 39 millimeters above the v*ctim's mandible.
Well, I'm no expert in viscosity, but-
I couldn't get any useful data from the soft tissue, so the bubbles are all I've got. If they melt away...
Excellent. Do it. Mr. Nigel-Murray, if I didn't have self-control, I would kiss you.
I should be able to use the syringe to extract the gas and any aerated fluid.
Now the trick is jabbing them.
Extremely, but so cool. My daughter wants to be a fighting hagfish.
No, it's the mascot of Central Maine State University, where Michelle says she's going next year.
She's following a boy, Angela. I mean, you're a hedonistic, free spirit, artist type, and even you didn't do that.
Almost. That's the key word here. I need to guide her, but she hates me for doing it.
Sweets? Why would I do that?
I don't want to talk to a child about a child.
Point seven two cc's and one point three three cc's.
How's the chocolate coming?
Whoa, that's the usual?
Lovely.
Yes.
Yes, she did, and yes, I am coming.
It's just a fun night.
With friends.
It sounds good. Let me know as soon as you get the results on those, okay?
We have the results from the first bubble.
There are also traces of oxygen, nitrogen, hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, oenanthic acid, decanoic acid, glycerine, glucose, ethanol...
It's a burp.
It's champagne.
How did you know?
I guess so.
Overreacting? D-Do...Are shrinks even allowed to use that word? Okay, so why am I overreacting?
I'm sorry. You lost me at "majoring in weed."
Oh, you're making it worse.
She is which is why she deserves to go to an exceptional school. This decision-
Applications are due in a few months. What if she realizes too late? I'm responsible for her, Dr. Sweets.
I don't know if I can do that.
Remind me again why I should listen to someone who doesn't even take care of a pet.
And I suppose you wouldn't get in the way of her decisions.
Oh. Hey. I'm just, uh, working on some disgusting stuff here.
He's actually a much cuter mascot than I imagined.
Oh, Michelle. I-I'm extremely proud of you. And I'm so sorry I haven't been supportive. This is your decision, and you have my support. One hundred percent.
Go, Hagfish!
Okay. Okay.
I thought you had something to show me.
What does that mean, a dislocated finger?
Huh. That's not a typical defensive wound. Nor does it seem to factor into our suffocation scenario. I'll make sure to tell Dr. Brennan. Very good work.
Last one, Mr. Nigel-Murray. Make it good.
Huh. That's actually sort of interesting.
Let's see.
Yes.
It is.
No, Dr. Hodgins. That is being a mother, and I assume I can trust your discretion?
We just got the results back from the second bubble we found trapped in the chocolate.
This one wasn't a burp. It was her final exhalation. It contained oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and a trace amount of bl*od.
Not Harriet's bl*od. Someone else's.
Yes. We have the k*ll.
Just react to something big.
Nope!
Congratulations!
That is so awesome!
So good!
No. Uh-uh.
I actually felt like I was hearing it for the first time.
I'm so glad that's over!
Charring, no ash. Six to eight hours? Dumped into the incinerator between one and three a.m.
Can't tell yet.
Meaning the v*ctim probably works here.
There's no carbon in the trachea. She was dead before she was thrown down the chute.
God.
I haven't finished removing all the carbonized brain matter.
Are you alright?
What the hell was that about?
Ted Reardon? v*ctim's father?
Rumor has it, Bancroft banished Reardon from the Jeffersonian because he felt threatened, politically.
Would it be insensitive to mention that my father's sixtieth birthday is coming up?
Uh-huh. We're having a big birthday dinner for him on Thursday night.
You do it yourself. You have to come with me!
I can't spend the night defending the fact that I still live alone to my family.
You wanna' make a man miserable on his sixtieth birthday.
Yes, between six-thirty and ten on Thursday.
Seeley, it's not going to be like this forever. One day he'll die!
Kristen Reardon was stabbed to death; aorta and left lung both punctured.
Through the wound, through her mouth, copious amounts.
Booth, everyone's coming around to the opinion that Kristen Reardon's death had something to do with the Gormogon vault.
You might've noticed but these people are tough to squelch.
When they do it, it's called a "quantum leap."
Rings a bell, yeah, why?
The body could've been wrapped in plastic or transported in a tub . There's a Dr. Kyle Aldrige heads up the middle east department, why?
Middle east department is in building S, but it joins up to this building by skyway, why?
Top floor, and I'm gonna' ask why again and your gonna' tell me.
Yes, you still have to come to my father's birthday dinner.
Nice try.
Zip!
Tzz!
What do you got?
Through the back?
People! You have to stop assuming that Gormogon was in any way involved in Kristen's death.
But he may have k*ll his girlfriend, do you see the difference?
So, eyes on the evidence, okay? Go.
What about the incinerator?
Can you see Aldrich committing a crime of passion and using his knowledge to cover it up?
Exactly, how well do you know Aldrige?
Thank you.
Oh, he'll never let us brake up.
No, my sister's picking us up but, of course, she's late.
Maybe she's late because there was a sale.
Hey, it's not me, she's the jealous competitive one.
You don't think so?!
Okay, let me get my things.
Okay!
Easy big guy, it's gonna' be a long night.
That concludes the autopsy of Dr. Kyle Aldrige, written report to follow.
Aldrige did not k*ll himself. The ligature, which was a silk cord from the vault, didn't break his hyoid.
I'm stumped; no significant trauma, no cardiac arrest, aneurysm or hematoma. Plus, I did a full tox screen, organics, inorganics, heavy metals and cardiac glycosides, all negatives.
It all circles back to the authentications department who happen to be working in the vault.
Because, as far as we know, he only k*ll males, and snacks on them. Plus, there are far too many other reasonable suspects.
The v*ctim's father.
He saw you question Aldrige. Booth said he went pale with anger.
Oh, we had dinner the other night when we . . . had dinner.
Ouch. He left some skin behind?
Nice job, Hodgins. We find the guy, we can do a DNA match.
Uh . . . bl*od serum contains ten milligrams per one-hundred milliliters. Elevated but non-fatal. It's odd though, because his kidneys were healthy; no signs of Addisons or any medication.
A muscle relaxant?
Right, the body turns succinylcholine into potassium, which occurs naturally in the body so it's not detected as a toxin.
I read Dr. Reardon's book too.
Why am I interested in that?
Different metals, right.
Angela accused you of being Gormogon?
Booth and I could be right about what?
From the outside you are a pretty good candidate to be Gormogon.
And the Jeffersonian's full of bronze w*apon.
Are you able to match a bronze w*apon to a copper fragment?
Someone would have to be awfully tall to stab downward at that angle.
It'd be pretty tough for someone like that to sneak in.
bl*od stain analysis indicates Kristen was k*ll on Aldrige's work table.
exits her anterior thorax . . .
Whoa, Dr. Bancroft, Dr. Aldrige arranged to meet the federal attorney?
Dr. Bancroft, it's our professional opinion here in the forensics lab, that Dr. Aldrige was m*rder.
Hey!
I owe you.
I do. It took the pressure off. I even reconnected with Felicia.
What?
Like a peck on the cheek or a full meal?
Full meal. I don't believe it.
She thought she stole you away from me, that's why she was so nice. You!
You kissed back.
Don't say hello to her. How could you make a move on my boyfriend?
Didn't think you should ask me first?
You know how dad is - I'd never hear the end of it. You saw how he lit up when he got that remote!
We know, Booth.
You want him, take him. I don't care.
So you admit it!
You were five, and they did not like you.
Oh, you made reservations? I'm surprised. I thought we'd have to eat from a cart in the street!
Don't raise your voice to her, Seeley. Let's go, let him calm down.
Wow.
According to Jeffersonian records, the Oryx was mailed to Box 99, Poplar Street Post Office in Arlington.
Yes, Dr. Bancroft, Agent Booth and Dr. Brennan are trying to arrange to have the post office staked out by tomorrow.
It's Cam. I told him. You were right, he wasn't happy when I said the FBI already knew.
Good hunting.
Since we don't have a head, do we have enough for an identification?
Could have been the handle of whatever lopped off his head.
I thought you never jump to conclusions.
My mother came to me the day after she died. I wasn't some kid, I was 23. She came to me- She came to me and told me to look in her dresser, third drawer, behind her pink blouse. There was something there for me.
That explains the video camera.
Forensic team found this near the pit.
v*ctim's preliminary tox screen came back negative. No drugs.
Why?
I'll - redo the tox screen.
Makes sense. Hacking off someone's head is more like cutting down a small tree than splitting a log.
Thank you. Let me know when you've narrowed down the w*apon category.
She appeared. In my room. It was early evening.
No, I felt - loved.
What do you think?
18th century.
My God. A little warning, Zack.
Yeah. Maybe you should start.
Looks like you have this under control.
The bl*od on those talisman things hanging from the trees? Not human.
Of course, people on PCP have been known to exhibit extraordinary strength.
Hodgins' report on the organic matter from the baggy found at the scene showed that it contained psilocybe mushrooms injected with phencyclidine.
Not to mention, combining dissociative anesthetics with hallucinogenic compounds- can have a devastating effect on people with fragile brain chemistry.
I'll confirm with the bl*od from the axe.
Do you think that skull is your Maggie Cinders?
The bl*od from the axe was from Graham Hastings.
Nope.
Yes and she's probably named Bessie.
It's cow's bl*od. The hormones and antibiotics confirm that it's from a butcher shop.
Preliminary tests show only one type of DNA on the axe, but now the follow-up tests are showing two.
No. I double-checked it.
Right. Attacker must have been cut by Graham during the struggle. I'm trying to separate out the two types of DNA, but it's hard.
That explains why it looks like there was only one bl*od source. Siblings share so many of the same chromosomes.
That certainly explains my result.
Trauma to the forehead...
Hands bound in front of him...Definitely not execution-style.
Some kind of emollient. It's around his lips too. You get anything out of the boy who found him?
Dead guy, foul play... it's your main function.
No, there's a bit of bone here...and...there.
Lividity looks fixed.
It was me.
I wouldn't do that, Dr. Brennan.
That's...that's not why I called you in.
Because his feet are missing. Which...suggests bone trauma, which immediately suggested you.
No, too much.
You want the honour?
Me too.
I estimate time of death at around four days.
Well, tissue damage indicates some kind of blade.
...Dr. Brennan, you aren't... being competitive between flesh and bone, are you?
Absence of pronounced ecchymosis on the wrists indicates the hands were bound post-mortem.
No, I'm hearing tone, but... could be my imagination.
I thought you had a name.
Angela's husband.
Guys? Contents of the v*ctim's stomach are corn...raw oats, and dried molasses.
F.Y.I? There's such a thing as too much fibre.
Ahhh.
As in a horse is a horse...
You just missed her. Booth tracked down the v*ctim's last credit card purchase to a country inn in Virginia. Why, do you need her?
Well I admire your work ethic, but she didn't say anything to me.
I am weighing human organs. Not really your thing.
Are you passing the time until you're hypnotised?
Oh, he's excited. We all are. Delving into the subconscious to find the name of the mystery husband? Veeery romantic.
Romantic for you and Hodgins when you finally get married... You nervous?
Now that's an opening line.
We were talking about hypnotism.
Angela? Therapeutic hypnosis is a proven technique. Electro-encephalography shows an increase in activity in the cerebral cortex, which opens the subconscious.
Yeah! It alters the alpha and the theta waves. Read the Stanford University study, it's not a party trick.
And I've been hypnotised myself.
Well, I was in Vegas. I got called up on stage, and apparently, I clucked like a chicken in front of three thousand people. But I have absolutely no memory of it.
No, it should have been. For the next three days, every time someone said 'coffee', I'd cluck. Awkward!
Trust me. No crazier than you drinking cava and marrying a giant in Fiji. And Hodgins seems to be pretty cool with that, so... if he wants you to try hypnosis, I'd say... get drowsy.
Yeah!
There you go.
Brawk! ... Kidding. It's been two years.
Brawk!
Bales of hay baler's twine?
Booth can get a warrant to identify all the pony players and cross reference.
Hodgins? Hodgins!
Got your page, what's up?
No. Little buggers ate the eyes clean through to the bone.
For the eyes missing?
You think the k*ll gouged out the eyeballs?
Probably the hoof kn*fe. The m*rder cutting off the feet, gouging out the eyes, this... was a bloody violent k*ll.
No, Dr. Brennan, the feet weren't lopped off, they were removed carefully, the eyes were gouged out- this was done by someone who was not squeamish about flesh.
Booth said some of those pony people were lawyers, judges... and doctors.
Someone who's good with a kn*fe and not afraid of bl*od? Sounds like a doctor to me.
I found evidence of sperm in Ed Milner's urogenital tract.
Annie Oakley claims that she rubbed down her pony and then went to sleep.
Well, if she lied about that... What else is she lying about?
So the tissue must have decomposed before the concrete was poured.
What happened to the v*ctim's clothing?
He must have been knocked unconscious, paralyzed or already dead.
If he was conscious he would have curled up in pain or tried to crawl away.
Something between the v*ctim's teeth?
Whadda ya got? Huh. Well, that's a new one.
There can't be too many people that tattoo teeth, right? This could lead to the v*ctim's identity.
Well, unless you can take bone dust and turn it back into a full skeleton, this is all we've got to work with.
Wow. If you're taking orders, I'd like a six four, thirty-seven year old male, with a good income and no mommy issues.
It's even flexible at the joints where the tendons and ligaments were replicated.
Ah, lucky for us this is a replica. Come on. Grab a limb.
Or impaled. We haven't m*rder yet, Mr. Vaziri. It's possible that the v*ctim blundered into a construction site, fell into the foundation and impaled himself on rebar.
So someone struck him on the head with a twirling - what twirls, and is good for hitting on the head?
So he left ballet to become a spinning on his head dancer?
So that's what happened to the rest of his skeleton? A fungus ate it?
Ouch.
Kalorama Park's loaded with street performers.
So we'll tell Booth to keep an eye out for a bronze m*rder w*apon in Kalorama Park.
How high is that?
But his skull was found over there.
So the corpse decomposed under the plastic for four months before the concrete was poured?
Black plastic and rusty rebar from a distance - practically impossible. Can all of the nicks on the bones be explained by the rebar?
Okay, what's that?
Okay, the wound on the right transverse process of the t-6 does not line up with the rest of the wounds from the rebar.
That one. It punctures his lung. This is not only cause of death; it's the way Hodgins fungus was introduced into the bone marrow.
Okay.
Sometimes decreasing the probability makes it tougher to identify the m*rder.
Really, it could be anybody. But, it's good that we found the w*apon.
Shakespeare said the v*ctim was a pickpocket. Maybe one of his angry marks caught him at it.
Stabs him in the back, tosses him into the foundation.
I know what you're thinking. We already looked for the fingerprints on the plastic where it was cut. It's all degraded and smeared from the bl*od. The forensic team found nothing useful.
What is she doing?
And the slash extended one point five meters, performed in one smooth movement.
Uh, there? What there?
How do you get a six month old palm print off a piece of plastic that's encased in concrete?
It has to be gold?
Go. Do.
Thank goodness. Oh.
It's too small. It's a child.
Stay out of the van until the b*mb tech comes, Hodgins.
How close are we to ID'ing the v*ctim?
She packed herself up, keepsakes and all, and took off in the van? Looks like Mrs. Nash was leaving Mr. Nash.
No record of her being in prison.
Doesn't seem like a very soccer mom thing to do.
An inverted pentagram? Devil worship.
And there they are.
She was sh*t too?
Are you sure it's not from the b*mb or the fire?
Yeah. That's a b*llet. I didn't find any dried bl*od on her clothes. When was she sh*t?
Hitting the top of the shoulder wouldn't be severe injury.
You know you could say 'walk around' instead. I wouldn't fire you.
Can't believe I still ask these things. Send every thing you got to ballistics at the FBI.
So it's a very old injury.
And since it was the same g*n that k*ll the policeman and was never recovered, I think we can assume that June Harris was sh*t during the robbery.
Another g*n sh*t?
So she was sh*t in the hand and the shoulder with the same b*llet? Is that even possible?
June Harris and NealWatkins were in Locklear's office at the back of the house.
When officer Valenti walks in, surprising them, June fires - k*ll Valenti -
June Harris was telling the truth. She didn't k*ll Valenti, Neal Watkins did.
Nice ironic touch.
June told him she was going to turn herself in.
And we have no way of knowing where that would have taken place if she had seen him.
.38 caliber slug - matches the revolver found at the scene. Now positioning is consistent with a self inflicted g*n sh*t wound but could easily have been staged.
What are you two thinking?
Neal Watkins wasn't able to pull the trigger.
There's one man who knew exactly how Neal made his b*mb.
But weren't the watches discontinued after '76?
The description's too general to get anything from a missing person's report.
How many times was he hit, and by what?
In my experience, people hit people with anything that they can pick up and swing. He was attacked from behind?
What?
Same w*apon?
Great. Where?
I'm thinking not so relevant in this case.
There were no bloodstains around the mud bath.
Zack, regarding the Neanderthals-
...What was the context of those k*ll?
Then we're looking for two or more m*rder.
The v*ctim was braised like osso bucco. The flesh was falling off the bone. I put time of death between ten days and two weeks.
Fits with the hypertrophy of the cervical muscles. I found microscopic tearing but he had to sustain this position to cause that kind of wear and tear.
Why would anyone want to k*ll him? It seems like he was doing a good enough job on his own.
The wound at the front of the head or at the back?
The blow to the front of the head was from a sharp tool.
That actually made sense to me.
A big meaty fist in a glove.
So. We haven't eliminated anyone from our list of suspects. Plus, we don't know what that's a cross-section of, and we don't know what caused the damage to the front of the face. What, exactly, made you two come in here crowing "King of the Lab"?
Do it and call Booth. See if it's of any use to him.
Wow.
We got the DNA results from the m*rder w*apon.
DNA says the m*rder's female.
Stan! I need some gauze. Danny? You don't find the owner of this in the next ten minutes, he'll bleed to death. Starting......now.
Seeley.
Don't call me Camille.
No.
Dr. Brennan, I'd like you to check out the automobile this train hit. It's probably what caused the derailment.
NTSB guy says the train struck the car at least 200 yards from the nearest access.
Eight minutes, Steve! Probably su1c1de. Why are you still here, Dr. Brennan?
You got that half right.
Thanks, Steve! All right. Every survivor is one less person for me to autopsy. You look good out of your suit, Seeley. But then, you always did.
Booth! Three deaths in the first class car.
One of them's a senator.
I am not telling the press that Warren Lynch k*ll Senator Paula Davis until we're completely certain.
Hey, Hodge-Podge, all engines reverse. First we identify beyond a shadow of a doubt, then we get paranoid.
What does that mean?
We are tighter than a nun's knees on this one. No press, no conjecture with anyone outside this room.
Because, we are going to find the details of Senator Davis's death without giving Oliver Stone or Michael Moore any more ideas.
You want to k*ll someone, planting yourself in front of a train probably not the best idea. But, too early to make any assumptions. I am a diuretic seagull, people. Everything goes through me. Ten AM, here, tomorrow? Zackaroni, your turn to bring the doughnuts.
Chief Coroner of New York for two years, Assistant Federal Coroner before that. How am I doing?
Fine.
Yes. Good, Dr. Brennan. We'll chat later.
Dr. Hodgins? You're chattering me to death because you're hoping I'll forget you called me a wanktard.
Given your heroin b*mb, I went back to what tissue remained traces of laudanine and reticuline, alkaloids found in the opium poppy.
To turn opium into heroin, it's exposed to hot acetic anhydride, which produces eighteen neutral impurities. The ratio of these impurities indicates the heroin's origin; in this case, Mexico.
Gas chromatography shows there's also fentanyl in the heroin.
It's a narcotic which boosts the effects of the heroin. According to Metro cops, fourteen addicts OD'd this week, off this one shipment.
No, I'll leave that up to you. ...how'd I do?
Why does the whole lab smell like a luau?
Using what medium?
Turn this off.
Why wasn't I told about this?
Your encouragement does not signify my authorization. If it happens again, I will take action. And I'm from New York, which means that I will take New York action. Am I clear?
Wrong New York. I'm more from the get-mugged-in-broad-daylight tradition. This is not a high school science fair; this is the Jeffersonian Institute. Unauthorized experiments in forensics will get you fired.
You know, what I'd really like to do here is enjoy a meeting of the minds. But, if you insist on an organizational pyramid, I will be at the top.
That's not Warren Lynch. How accurate is this thing?
That is not Warren Lynch.
What about the dental records?
The records were expertly faked.
I've informed the FBI that they might want to start looking for him. In the meantime, we're moving to I.D. this guy.
Miss Montenegro uncovered a fraud; that's the opposite of a mistake.
Hey, if you had made a mistake, I'd have thrown you to the wolves.
Two people forced the corpse into the jacket, that's excellent work. Who's that?
Means Turco's probably the last person who saw Lynch before he fell off the radar.
Ah! I am getting through.
Why shouldn't I, Seeley?
Dogs herd cats.
Chase 'em up trees, whatever.
These. Are titanium rib-clippers from Germany. My last job? Used bolt cutters from Home Depot. These are much, much nicer. This autopsy table? Has downdraft ventilation. No rotting corpse smell, Seeley. My last table didn't even have a drain. Think about that a second. Leaky corpse, no drain.
I've spent my whole professional life in basement rooms with no windows. Now I'm in the Jeffersonian Institute. ...what?
You so do not.
God, the ego!
Nothing to do with you.
Okay.
Plus, she dedicated her book to you, so... BOOTH: It's a legitimate case, Cam.
I know. I read the file.
Why hasn't she confronted me?
About me, being parachuted in over her head? Finds me intimidating, right?
Hey, I intimidate people.
Then...what?
Yes.
How do I help her make the right decision?
What's the maximum sentence on those charges?
What did you want us to do?
No, Ms. Supek, you want us to do your job. My people gave you all the evidence you need to fry Turco with any reasonable jury.
We gave you everything you needed to arrest Turco.
We gave you enough to reject his plea bargain and indict him on the wrongful death of a Senator.
You accept this plea bargain, you don't deserve to be a federal prosecutor.
Yeah, it's scary. The whole country will be watching the trial, and you don't want to go in with less than a sure thing. But you put my people on the stand as expert witnesses and that's a sure thing.
You tell people the story of what happened using the evidence these people provided and if you have any ability as a prosecutor, you'll win the case.
No, Ms. Supek. In the future, when you have problems with my team, you register them with me in private, not by grandstanding in a public forum.
So, you and Perry going to get something to eat after the library?
Okay. But promise me you're going to...
Sorry. New mom.
The... formal?
The whole night? Well, Where would you sleep?
So, you and Perry would be spending the night together, not sleeping?
Just thinking it through. That's all.
Well, I do, but...
Yeah.
Cam, Perry. Call me Cam.
Bye, guys.
Where's Dr. Brennan?
When do teenagers start having sex?
No. I meant "what age?"
Oh, Dr. Brennan already requested that you suit up to supervise the FBI techs' retrieval of the remains at the train tracks.
What? Discovered what?
Great.
I trust your methods, Dr. Brennan. You can just skip to the conclusion.
Amish, like buggies and hats Amish?
Then let's call Booth. Maybe something will turn up on Missing Persons.
Uh...Why, I guess it is. Look at that.
Isn't Booth expecting you?
And the bad news?
Okay. Send him the routes he has to search.
Michelle has this boyfriend, Perry...
So, the v*ctim must have died shortly after the last time he spoke to his parents.
Yeah, well, she's a child. She still has stuffed animals.
How helpful. Anything else, Hodgins? And let's try something case-related this time.
Me? Oh, God! Wh-What am I gonna do?
Are those the rocks from the v*ctim's room?
Meaning you found something?
Hodgins.
What about the feathers?
Okay.
You think this is a piano?
I'll tell Booth.
Michelle! What are you doing here?
Come in. Sit down.
Michelle, are you having sex?
It's no big deal. I just...Well, no, it is a big deal. It's a really, really big deal.
It is. I'm your legal guardian, Michelle.
No. I think I'm understanding, but sex... sex is...Well, when two people have sex, when the body is secreting hormones...When men and women and sex are...Some people believe that God will smite you. Just a thought.
I know, Michelle. I love you, and I don't want to see you get hurt.
Michelle...
Michelle...
You can hear them call each other Karen and Tony.
Why are there two massive train wheels blocking the loading dock?
Only she didn't ask you to bring in the whole train.
Anything linking the as*ault to Karen Lin or her boyfriend?
No. That's why I should start digging the remains out of the train wheels.
Oh, it's okay. I... I handled things badly, I guess.
I think so. Look, Michelle, I...This is all new to me, too. So, I'm sorry if we got off on the wrong foot.
And you talked to him about boys?
Oh, God, no. No, my mom told him to go bowling. She knew he'd have a meltdown. My dad still thinks I'm a...His little girl.
So, you and Perry... ?
Whoa, there's no such thing as "just sex", Michelle. Every time, you give a bit of yourself to the person you're with. So, it's okay to wait. As long as you want.
If Perry doesn't understand how you feel, he doesn't deserve you.
Oh, Michelle. That's what I was afraid of, too.
FBI techs found a grand piano at the conservatory with bits of dried flesh and bl*od inside the keyboard lid.
There were some partials on the lid directly above the spot where Levi's left hand was broken.
Don't need to, we already have a match. The prints are Levi's.
That's what the evidence says.
We're going to be in the water, Doc. Remember to bring Traxon and soluble tape.
Zack, I need some sterile tubes before she's fertilizer.
Mmm-mm, they have.
Not yet, scoop guys just got here. (She indicates the diving team, now working out in the water on a life-raft.
Looks like we finally get to put Richardson away. I love being a hero.
Mmm, sounds too druggy. I'm going with hero.
Scraping the adipocere from the hand.
No, no. I have the utmost respect for the doc. Glad she works for me.
File says witnesses placed Richardson at the marina on the bay this night that she disappeared. Looks like he's not walking this time, Seeley.
Let's focus people, this should be a slam dunk. We screw this one up, I'm gonna look like a fool and someone's gonna have to pay for that.
There are boxes of evidence. The remains are the icing on the cake.
Let's just hand the prosecutor what she needs to I can have a nice weekend knockin' back shots and playing poker.
I'm gonna strip the flesh and adipocere. Remove anything from under the fingernails.
Yeah.
Now much left of the organs. Looks like I can still find a few surprises from what's left of this lung. Looks like some liver here.
What do you want?
Sounds like fun, let's do it.
He always was a little touchy.
Remember Doc, were building a case here. Not getting our rocks off on research.
You're serious? Okay. I bought your hand back Found organic materials under the fingernails, should match Richardson. And I found something else I'd like you to look at.
It's here in the lung, it's a locket.
before I remove it I wanted to see if any of your cyborgs could do anything with the photo paper.
It's probably just another picture of the lovebirds anyway. Oh, what's this?
Oh, no.
I don't know, I don't want to know. Just want it to be Richardson.
A dead dog, excellent.
I like this. Good work.
What?
Maybe, if I could find one that sleeps late and cleans. Does this apply to the case in any way?
Are you pregnant?
Well, as long as you aren't leaving the lab every two minutes to pee.
Oh, god.
Dozing off, Hodgepodge.
What the hell's going on here? Richardson is the only logical suspect. Are we working for the defense now?
The kn*fe, the rope, the plastic sheeting are all from Richardson's house, that's been confirmed. We're trying to build a case here, people.
Not asking you to. I just want you to fill in the blanks. There must be freshwater close enough for Richardson to have dumped the body.
Great. Whatever the "hell-minths" those are, find them.
Okay, fine. Just stop talking and do it.
What have you got?
I've got the board of the Jeffersonian, the federal prosecutor and Nancy Grace ready to devour me if I don't hand them enough to indict Richardson.
No, I want us to find out who k*ll Carlie and I'm pissed 'cause whoever did it is messing with me and I don't like that. I like doing the messing.
Tell me what you need.
Here comes Kyle.
All I hear is blah, blah, blah.
This better work!
Maybe he didn't. It sounds nuts but if she's the k*ll maybe Karen got rid of him too to keep him from talking.
DNA results came back. It was Kyle under her nails.
Fortunately there was also the skin of somebody else. Tests showed it was a woman.
We should get her DNA drawn as soon as possible.
It's not Karen Tyler.
The DNA from under Carlie's fingernails doesn't match. And something else is weird. Tissue from the fetus shows evidence of escitalopram.
It's a drug prescribed for depression.
Carlie Richardson wasn't taking the drug.
I agree. The only way the fetus could have the drug in its system is if it were passed from the mother in utero.
I don't believe it.
Then what happened to her baby?
Evidence of shaken baby syndrome.
Whoever the mother was she was probably taking the medication for postpartum depression. She got upset with the baby. Crying's the most common cause. And she shook him to quiet him down.
Fits the pattern. She feels the guilt at what she's done and needs to make it right, prove to herself that she's still a good mother. So she takes Carlie's child and makes it her won. It's only been two weeks, not many people have seen her kid. Who would know?
Your report indicates there were kn*fe marks on the lower ribs.
It was the baby they were concerned with.
The last place I worked had a drunk sketch artist. Wow.
Have you googled the grilled cheese Jesus? 'Cause that was just a faulty griddle.
Sorry, big guy. That was debunked 20 years ago. Carbon dating doesn't lie.
All right. Let's do it.
Based on lack of hemorrhagic tissue, she was dead before ending up on the baler.
Not until she's completely processed. I don't even know how I'm going to tox her. The cardboard soaked up most of her bodily fluids.
Ooh, hello, maggots. Maybe Hodgins can use these little devils to give us time of death.
For vanity. Women love shoes.
I just got a call from Ethan Lawrence in Egyptology. Something about a Post-it note where his fluoroscopy machine used to be.
No, really it's more of a firing and arrest thing. Did you really think for one minute-
Just show me.
Something embedded in the anterior superior iliac spine.
A straight pin.
Hodgins found gravel in her hair, but death by gravel is unlikely.
How? She's basically been absorbed into the substrate. We could cut underneath, but that runs the risk of compromising the bones.
Which means Meriel was, too.
Looks like Bridezilla might have messed with the wrong old lady.
Does this relate to our v*ctim at all?
Mm, she's sticking.
Can we save your w*r stories for a more appropriate time, Mr. Bray?
Careful. Careful of the skull.
Knock yourself out.
Isolate her head full frame.
Perimortem bruising.
Seems like our v*ctim was flattened before she was flattened.
No, why?
You thinking of trying it?
Did you really tell Sweets that Daisy was cheating on him?
In this case, it was definitely the way to go.
I thought you said you found tire treads on her head?
The k*ll ran her down, and then made sure she was dead by running her over again.
Save it, Mr. Bray. You think you have the big secret, but you don't.
If it's okay with Sheriff Lobo, maybe you could send me some.
A coat alone doesn't count for that.
A couple weeks in the desert and no critters got at these remains?
Certainly enough metal to generate the magnetism to raise the remains when exposed to the MRI.
g*n, maybe? Full of ball bearings?
Not so fast, Dr. Brennan. I know you dislike flesh, but I'm going to need you to remove the adipocere organs.
You're gonna need a hair dryer and some cooking spray.
Very good, Dr. Brennan.
Now, remove the stomach.
So our v*ctim was using a dangerous insecticide. Not unusual for someone who's a couple of tacos short of a combo plate.
Thanks.
Check her teeth. Any evidence of floss still on her teeth?
She was hiding the card. It's an old prison trick. She tied one end of the floss to her tooth and the other end to the memory card, so if she needed it, she could use the floss to pull it up.
Did you have any luck? Was the data damaged?
So, it's video.
No. Impossible. This was doctored.
Are you saying our v*ctim might have stumbled on a real UFO?
So what hit her knees wasn't cinder block?
Mexico?
Is it available in Mexico?
Excellent.
Okay, let's see it.
Well that's a lot more terrestrial than I expected.
And this is a hose. What do you think, three inches? That's the source of the glowing liquid.
Weird, glowing liquid in the Mexico desert. Hazmat suits.
Oop, she fell. That must've been where she fractured her knees.
Can you get a specific manufacturer from that?
Wow.
There is nothing in this video that indicates what kind of w*apon was used to k*ll the v*ctim.
That's just white noise.
That's Spanish.
No, I was a cop and coroner in New York City, so I speak some. Can you play that back?
"I'm in charge. If you don't get this done before sunrise, you'll regret it."
She's not from Mexico, though.
The way she says "estoy" and "arrepentiras." The Puerto Rican cops used to make fun of me when I pronounced my "T"s and "P"s like that.
Yeah. The speaker is definitely American.
What's with the faces?
Inspired?
I don't know if anyone should enjoy their work this much.
You got that right.
McKinney served with Aldo and those men trust each other with their lives.
That is elegant.
Judging from decomp and discoloration, I'd estimate the head was in the pond a minimum of four days.
Nope, v*ctim was in the water too long. The bl*od leached out.
Dr. Tanaka.
I have a test to perform first.
You're welcome to observe.
Yes, I'm testing for g*n residue.
Any sh*t fired within five feet would've left residue.
Sachi was only five feet tall. Even if her k*ll was lying on the ground, there'd be residue.
Or maybe standing on the balcony of her apartment? Grab some goggles and a mask.
Did you know the v*ctim, Dr. Tanaka?
That's a very big favor to do to Detective Nakamura, coming all the way from Japan.
Okay.
There. While I examine the wound track, you can analyze exit trauma.
And the directionality is outward from the midpoint of the coronal suture.
So she wasn't k*ll by a b*llet?
Perhaps you can inform Booth that the m*rder w*apon was not a g*n.
And we can X-ray the brain to see if we find any evidence of splinters.
Totally lost.
Dr. Brennan found the head on the low marsh.
Why would someone cut a head off a body here, and drive miles away to dispose of the head here?
I will autopsy the remains, then give the body back to Dr. Brennan, so she can remove the tissue.
Dr. Tanaka can help me prepare the brain for liquefaction.
The heat and vibration will liquefy the tissue enabling us to examine whatever foreign particle was picked up by the X-ray.
Thank you.
What? No. Why?
I was? I was... I don't... I didn't realize. I... like your shirt.
Oh, wow, look at that brain.
Wood?
Let's not get ahead of ourselves; give it to Hodgins so we know exactly what we're dealing with.
I almost asked Tanaka.
Not that it matters, but he - she/he - caught me staring. I didn't mean to, but I had an opening, you know, but I didn't know how to lead off. If I said he/she was a girl, and he/she was a guy, he/she might be offended, or other way around, same thing. God, I missed the ease of a simple pronoun.
Why do I feel like my checking account isn't safe?
These pictures definitely weren't taken at Strutt's studio.
Classic stalker photos.
If he was stalking Sachi... ANGELA: Maybe it wasn't just pictures he wanted to sh**t.
Well, she wasn't k*ll by whatever pierced her brain. I aspirated her lungs. Cause of death was drowning.
The girl was drowned first, a mask was put on her, then she was decapitated and her head was mounted on a bamboo stake?
Let's find out what kind of water was in her lungs.
Hodgins analyzed the water in Sachi's lungs.
It's Tanaka's life. We are not children.
Strange question - I know - but I gotta to ask: are you by any chance pregnant?
Do you want to know why I'm asking?
No. Very modest. Uh, I'm asking because Michelle was here earlier this afternoon, and the only other two people, besides me, that use that bathroom are you and Angela.
Very true.
Very, very active.
You are so cheering me up right now.
Ooooh.
I was going to, but there was...real work that needed doing. Next week, for sure.
No offense intended. Angela, quick question. Uh, is this your home pregnancy test?
Are you pregnant? Please say yes. Oh.
I'm so sorry. I thought we were alone.
Well, it isn't mine and Dr. Brennan doesn't make life choices without a Boolean flowchart, so I hoped it might be you. I'm not crazy. I'm not... crazy.
What's going on?
I'm in charge of this facility.
The people we order paper cups and pencils from?
He's just an FBI psychologist.
Threats are not really gonna work for you tonight.
Now that you've kidnapped my lab and my people, maybe you could tell me why.
Is there any way I could just persuade you to look at these and guess cause of death?
I need to get home to k*ll Michelle.
Older than 39 at the time of death.
Youch. Not even two-thirds normal size. Poor guy was in agony.
Disease, steroids. Hard to tell what caused it without doing a bone sample.
Huh. I count three. Metal plates?
Which could help us positively identify these remains.
I'm not as good as you are at doing what I'm told.
Fire in the hole. Hodgins!
Like I said, I'm not really the good soldier type.
Could I suggest that cause of death probably won't be found in the extremities. Check out this skull.
Blunt-force trauma?
That's all for you. There are very distinctive marks on the remaining frontal bone.
No tests that degrade the samples. I'm too young to be a grandmother.
You look like you're about to explode.
Hodgins, you're vibrating.
Wait. Pink wool, as in Chanel?
Severe head wound. Oh, my God.This - is President John F. Kennedy. Why would they bring us JFK's remains after all these years?
Which are these?
That's a good casket. How could his remains be completely skeletonized?
Ah! The mesh would explain the crisscross patterns on the skull.
I can't confront Michelle about something this big over the telephone, right?
No. The fact that she's pregnant.
What's awkward?
Oh, I'm going to call her right now and tell her that I need to talk to her as soon as I get out of here.
She lied to me. She told me to my facethat she wasn't having sex with that boy. She lied to my face.
Oh, thank God. No. I mean...
You alright?
Because I was freaking out about Michelle. Thank you.
Well, that would create a more Cushingoid appearance.
James Garner.
Here's the entry wound close up.
Perpendicular bisectors reveal the center. And our diameter is...
Same caliber as Oswald's r*fle.
You want our best work? This is what we do.
Just one.
Hey, Mr. White, enough.
Reverse beveling.
You keep returning to the v*ctim's arm. The v*ctim didn't die from a little calcification.
You two don't understand: Booth is a very patriotic man. He believes this is the greatest country ever.
The Kennedy assassination wasn't a secret agenda. It was a black stain. A dark moment in history. Do you know how many people Booth has sh*t..for his country?
And Booth did that because he trusted that it was right. And who did he trust?
If they lied about the m*rder of a president, they can lie about anything.
Our results are inconclusive at best.
Mr. White? For future reference, you might want to inform your bosses that we don't do half-truth here.
You aren't pregnant. When I thought it was Michelle, I retested the sample. I just got the results. It's a false positive.
The big man always comes through. Always.
What are you going to do?
Who was being tested?
Or maybe they were testing me to see if I could run a lab in a professional manner.
You mean we were some sort of dry run?
Except they weren't Kennedy's bones.
Were you aware that JFK had scarlet fever in childhood?
Scarlet fever can cause osteomyelitis.
You're a good person. I will never forget what you did for him.
Apparently you're their role model.
Because, of the type of children who idolizes Dr Brennan.
These remains are completely saturated.
Very impressive!
Perhaps you should throw them a bone. Not literally, metaphorically. After all, they were all very professional.
You couldn't have just let them have that one just go by.
Uh. A number of things. Compromised intestinal tract, methane, some mining processes, oiling gas refining, volcanoes?
Probably sulphur. Tissue samples indicate a high concentration of hydrogen sulphide.
Bouncing around savage river for 2 months can do that.
He's missing his fingers, what does that tell you?
That, very well may be. But what it tells me that you are going out to look for fingertips, in case the woodchucks missed them.
Take Hodgins. He'll explain.
Human remains in water tend to lose all their fingers and toes due to predation.
People, let's break this down as though we're not in a comic book. No water in the sinuses or lungs, no pulmonary edema.
His whole sinus cavity is scarred, the septum's almost gone. Evidence of multiple constrictions of the arterial zypolexics.
The closest thing I've ever seen to that is a cocaine addict who ran out of drugs and started snorting things like sugar and powder-like detergent.
Lacerations?
Do not tell me we're back to super chicken soldier again.
Cause of death, Mr Bray?
Like going through a giant washing machine.
A broken neck.
You mean wrung?
You mean the chicken man was k*ll by having his neck wrung?
We are going to have to catalogue all these injuries chronologically. Talk to Angela, see if she has any imaging technique that can help.
These have been frozen, fried, microwaved, bitten, spat out and preserved as evidence.
They all came from the same local chain chicken restaurant.
Beg your pardon?
They're one of them. No way in telling where these particular human nuggets came from.
Removed post mortem. So not torture obviously.
Removed with shears?
This is what happens when two people with different disciplines find each other and work closely. Can you highlight the peri mortem bruising?
What the hell would leave marks like that?
And why they stop there?
So we have electricity?
Streaming nuclei suggest voltage.
I'm gonna go out on a limb here and guess that what we're looking for is a self cauterizing instrument that cuts beak and feathers.
Searching for the m*rder w*apon.
Yeah, I don't roll the interns. Perhaps Angela would do it.
Someone rolling?
Oh,we got bl*od
The Jeffersonian will reimbursed it if needed.
Uh-oh.
They fight, tie gets caught inevitably.
You should swab the dismemberment points - there could be trace evidence from the blade.
I am the boss.
You don't actually believe that.
So two ribs weren't sawed off.
It's always a tad creepy when you admire the k*ll handiwork.
But it did have teeth, so we're looking for a saw of some type.
Let me know when you can.
Okay, we get it. What did you find?
I'll let Dr. Brennan know that we are looking for a saw which can cut through metal. And you don't have to fight, you both did well. I run a kindergarten.
Cause of death, Mr. Bray?
The w*apon could have passed through the 8th intercostal space, perforating the lung causing her to bleed to death.
So the w*apon is found in an auto body shop?
Oh, Angela has the photos Dr. Brennan uploaded of potential w*apon from the reunion.
SO this is the class of '94.
Do you see anything that could match the stab wounds?
Zoom in on those tools on the table.
Compare that to the marks on the bone.
An exact match for the injuries found on the bones.
Stab wounds are usually localized.
Digging the stars into her bones and puncturing the pleural cavity, k*ll her.
Clandestine meetings, secret pacts, m*rder. Sounds like her high school.
Dr. Sweets, are you still with us?
So what was it like to meet Hannah?
I just assumed that when you guys got back for your trip that you'd be a real couple.
And I will Dr Eddison.
The injuries on the female indicate that the left posterior ribs eight through eleven shattered piercing the heart, lungs and kidneys.
Internal bleeding would have taken much longer to k*ll him, he could have gone for help.
So he stayed and held her and she died in his arms.
Well the remaining tissue I collected from his hands shows a high level of nicotine.
But Hilary Fuller was a college educated woman with a good job at a marketing firm. Why would she romantically involved with a migrant worker?
I did a count on the male v*ctim osteoblasts too and found that they were also returning to normal.
But according to the figures only within the last year.
I was told these are for you.
And if she's lying the treads should contain insect and plant matter that could place her there.
Yes but since I'm your boss you're my lovely assistant.
Dr Brennan!
I'm guessing that this about more than a mistake made by an assistant.
Someone has altered your relationship with Booth Dr Brennan-
Yes. Whether or not you're happy for him you have to have feelings about it and if you can't keep it out of the work place-
I'm sorry Dr Eddison but sometimes our personal lives directly affect our work.
But if they weren't b*at then why did Dr. Hodgins find traces of sedimentary rock in their wounds.
I apologize Dr. Brennan.
Well with the amount of bl*od loss they were both suffering they couldn't have made it any farther.
I think I found something.
Most of the flesh was decomposed or eaten by parasites except for this area around his eye and cheek.
That's what I asked myself so I did an analysis of the tissue and compared it with the tissue I took off other parts of the remains, this tissue from around his eye contains Capsaicin
Yes but at a very high concentration. Government issue. The scavengers wouldn't touch it.
Why are you standing there like a security guard? . Parker, hey!
Angela, would you mind...?
There was this guy on my street who cut his lawn on the diagonal. The neighbors got angry. Someone set his garage on fire.
A dead body in the barbecue pit.
. 48 degrees Celsius. That's, what, an hour after they drenched everything with a garden hose?
Well, it's human nature, Dr. Brennan. You see someone on fire, you put 'em out.
Would it have anything to do with the pebbles embedded in the remains?
Which explains why they were embedded in the remains.
I assume they're pig.
Time for prayers?
Oh, I'm sorry.
As a Muslim, I imagine you consider this work unclean.
Luau custom says throw the pig bones back in the pit. Sorry, sorry. Pig bones. God.
Really, Arastoo, there's no reason for you to...
No, really, most of us aren't devout here, and I respect your religion.
Point is, you shouldn't feel forced...
Wow.
Oh, you aren't even gonna try to un-ring that bell, are you? .
Saroyan.
Uh, yeah, any signs of a struggle in the pebbles?
Plenty. He estimates a fatal amount.
He's pretty cooked, but we'll try. Hodgins also ID'd morning glory pollen between the v*ctim's eyeballs and his sunglasses.
He said morning glories only bloom after sunup. Sunrise was 5:47 a.m., so we're close to a time of death. Were you guys aware that Arastoo doesn't really have an accent? .
. Don't you find it odd that he was faking an Arab accent of any kind? .
I'm not hanging up because I don't have an answer to that, I'm just hanging up. .
Can you see anything that would explain copious bl*od loss?
Can it, bub. It's just you and me here.
And it's barely a poke, right?
Is that bone splintering?
Like?
Here... is the stab wound. And the laceration from the saw. Neither blow's anywhere near a major vein or artery.
Crap?!
b*llet. Is that a .44 caliber?
Hey...
Want to run our friendly neighborhood suburbanites through the National g*n Permit Database, see if any of them own a .44? Hodgins found that in the pit. .
Arastoo Vaziri, our Muslim intern - he's been faking his accent. At first I go where everyone else goes, you know - t*rror1st.
Is it crazy or just weird? Weird, I can deal with, but crazy... .
Oh, crazy is your department. .
.Tox screen came back positive for potassium nitrate, which can be prescribed for high bl*od pressure... . ...but Kurt Bessette was in very good shape. .
Nope. He might have experienced some muscle weakness, but otherwise saltpeter is fairly harmless.
That's a total myth, Booth.
And did it work?
We've been saying that the two wounds we found on the v*ctim's body wouldn't be enough for him to bleed out... BRENNAN: But with saltpeter, he could have bled internally from even minor soft tissue damage.
We'd never have seen the evidence of that after he cooked.
I think you'll want to talk to the cheating bastard's wife.
Can't you just say lubricant? Isn't that much quicker?
Yes. . She doesn't care. . She doesn't care.
Arastoo, things will go a lot faster if you just explain.
. It doesn't look very severe. Corresponding micro fractures to the posterior cranium indicate that Kurt was hit while resting his head on a hard surface.
Bob Sayles is a big, burly man.
So a reciprocating saw, a golf-club with some lubricant. That just leaves the puncture w*apon unidentified.
Oh... my God. Please tell me this has something to do with the case.
Well, that looks... scary. .
What about this lubricant? .
There's one of those signs on every lawn on the cul-de-sac.
Huh. You're gonna need to luminal every sign on Verbena Court.
I'm afraid so. I'll go tell Booth about the lube. .
Okay, it's technically illegal moonshine, but we are scientists honing our craft.
It's not our fault you let the accent slip.
Ha.
Not quite. I have one more question. . If you took the all-time greatest Celtics players and put them against the all-time greatest Lakers, who would win? .
Who do you want to start with? The Wicked Witch of the East over here-East, right?
Which are sealed up. What is it with this job and corpses encased in mystery wrap?
Well, let me see if I can get in here.
No evidence of smoke inhalation. She was dead before the fire.
Now... that one is just weird.
So, somebody robbed a grave, strung together a skeleton and stuck it in a wedding dress?
Torture?
She was a witch?
Oh. You're not Hodgins.
Wait for what?
I have a new appreciation for Dr. Hodgins.
It's not like Hodgins to be late. Can you come get me as soon as he shows up?
And I think the acetone is eating through your shoes.
Looks to me like, uh, you two are doing just fine in here.
These two aren't exactly Bonnie and Clyde. Can't you let them go?
Well, I'll post bail, pay the fine--whatever. We need them to solve this m*rder.
Don't you think you're being a little... rigid?
Yes, but...
Wow. You are like the last upright man in America.
That's very impressive, Sheriff.
I'm... sure the judge will be coming soon.
Sorry. It was like arguing with one of the Founding Fathers. I've got the evidence. We'll talk, okay?
See you guys later.
What's that?
Well, it's time to multi-task. I have the evidence Angela and Hodgins gathered from the scene.
Well, they had to wait for the judge, and you can't bend the law to help your friends.
Well, they can coach us and consult, but, yeah, it's you and me.
Well, if the root bulb's present, it could be an indicator that the hair was forcibly removed.
I'll run DNA. So how are you guys doing?
I'm sure you will. Thanks, guys.
The hair in the amber gave us a hit. CODIS says it belongs to one Murray Huddler, convicted of as*ault in 2008, paroled last October. Now this may possibly go towards motive.
It certainly goes toward "creepy coincidence."
Huddler's wife dumped him, hosed him in a divorce, then married the lawyer that represented her. But look at this.
Anything look familiar to you?
Definitely not a match.
Are we thinking a woman had a bat shoved down her throat? Yes, that's exactly what happened.
What is it?
They'll be none of that. No fun, no video, no vomit. Ooh! Then again=
Okay, people. Let's start with the who. We'll worry about the why and the how later.
Though "who" is clearly the priority.
What's our starting weight, Zack?
Which at about 8.3 pounds a gallon comes to 270. 275.
The cream always rises. Or in this case, melted body fat. I'll measure its volume to determine body type.
After that, old McZacky, get on the horn with the coroner's office and tell them I want two field-unit water sifters sent here ASAP.
Then drop it twice.
Well, that's a bit of a leap.
Don't these things usually come engraved with serial numbers?
Lard, I've got plenty of. The rest of him's in the "ookey" room where he belongs.
Fat. 9.3 liters so far.
Maybe not, Zack.
Have my water sifters arrived yet?
Doing what the wallet can't. Right now, I'd say our v*ctim's an ectomorph. Thin, linear, narrow features. And I hear you're back with your ex.
Rebecca, right? Reliving old times?
Oh, relax.
We all have our weak moments.
Please, Seeley. Like we haven't shared enough of them for me to know better.
Brennan was pretty sure that they didn't. And still don't apparently. Booth wants to wait to tell them.
Maybe. I just wouldn't want these women finding out at the funeral.
Have you found anything resembling a w*apon in the tub yet?
These skull fragments may feel like wet cardboard, but I'm pretty sure we're looking at blunt force trauma.
Specks of bl*od at the point of impact. Could've been the lethal blow.
Available at your local market.
People, can we at least fake some sense of decorum.
I have a scalpel.
It looks like a splintered ulna bone.
From the tusk of a small elephant?
Like teeth marks on a pencil. See what Angela can make of it. And after that, I'll need you to go back to the crime scene with the photos I'm taking. See what you can find with the approximate shape and dimension of this blunt force wound.
It needn't look like on. Anything that replicates this pattern.
We'll pin our phone number on his shirt. What's that you got there?
I might be able to help.
It's the finger from a rubber glove. Hodgins just found it wedged under the tub's drain stopper.
No maybes about it. If there's a print, I'll pull it. And when I pull it-
What is it, Angela, please?
Where you twist it in a bun and stick this through to hold it in place? But if that's what this is, we can be pretty sure it wasn't Larry's.
How's this for a curveball?
After retrieving and reassembling every tooth from that tub...I now discover that I had one extra.
Exactly. Any of your women happen to be missing one?
I knew that.
Wicked?
Not if we don't do it again.
Deal. Not after tonight, I mean.
No.
I talked to him just last week about Michelle. How to get her to stop smoking.
Cigarettes. I've been her legal guardian for a month and I'm already a total failure.
Maybe we should just focus on Hank.
Ch, she looks really upset.
Sounds good.
Sorry, Hank but she's still smoking.
Hank said I should ground Michelle. But I don't want to be the enemy. She's only been with me for a month, you know?
Oh, right.
Guard the door? From what?
You undressed the deceased?
Huh. There was no mention of this contusion in the medical examiner's report.
This bruise was sustained later.
Sure looks that way.
The funeral home. For embalming.
Your Sequoia was, uh...it was blocked so I grabbed Angela's Matrix.
It'll be fine. There's lots of room.
He looks comfy.
Yes. He was stabbed. You can see the entry wounds hidden behind trocar buttons. 13 in total. Each one sealing up a cutaneous puncture site, each one caused by a w*apon three-eighths of an inch in diameter. Most likely...this: standard medical trocar, used in arterial embalming.
Impossible. Over half of these are nowhere near a vein. Hank was stabbed seven times with a trocar while he was still alive.
Where he was stabbed to death.
Hello. I'm Dr. Camille Saroyan. I'm not sure we met.
You panicked and stabbed him?
I get it. Sometimes I'm here in the middle of the night, and I swear I see one of these bodies move. Let me just say, I totally get that.
It wasn't a full autopsy. No need, because he was declared dead by the hospital. Cause seemed reasonable, so the ME just signed off on it.
Embalming would have destroyed any trace of paralytic toxins in his system. Except..a trace amount of the toxin may still be found in the vitreous humor of the eye.
Vitreous humor tests positive for tetrodotoxin. One hundred times more lethal than potassium cyanide. Naturally occurring.
Yet. That occurs anywhere from 20 minutes to eight hours after ingestion. Until then, heart and respiratory rates mimic death. Tung hits a nerve while tapping the femoral, Reilly bolts up, still in a coma.
But somebody else poisoned him first.
I'm done. I'm going to need some transport for me and my friend.
I meant Hank. I was being oblique.
"Sushi"? You're going for sushi?!
Everybody was all "Hurry up, Cam." Now, I'm twiddling my thumbs here with a stolen body. I can't lug him back on my own.
That happens here - in the autopsy room.
Thank you so much. Okay, ready? One, two, three. By the way, Hank wasn't k*ll by his lunch.
No. Toxin slowed his digestion, and the remains were well preserved by the formaldehyde and ethanol. Tuna, salmon, yellow tail, and eel cut roll.
Well, I did find some stray tea leaves. His strainer must not have worked very well.
Hey, I'm a pathologist, not an undertaker. I did the best I could. Adjust his smile; be my guest.
Probably the best way to deliver poison.
Okay. Go, go, go.
Get his legs.
Okay.
Shh, shh, shh. Good.
Why?
Do you think he's smiling too much? I think he just looks like he's enjoying the party.
He wore glasses? Oh, God.
What? I'm sorry. This smoking thing with Michele...How do people be parents?
Great, so I go from a smoking issue to a chocolate cake and ice cream issue?
Okay, is this another way to get me to quit smoking? Because it's done. I quit.
Oh, God. This is why I hate funerals.
Are you okay?
Agent Perotta and I inspected the dump site, and I cleared the body to be transported back to the lab. We haven't determined identity yet.
m*rder.
Fisher, you're into this stuff.
Fantasy, Sci-Fi, Geek stuff.
Both feet display erythema and heavy blistering, but no calluses. My guess is, she was standing in those princess pumps for hours. The skin here, on the back of the hand, is less desiccated than the area surrounding it. Not sure what that means yet.
Well, I am finished with the soft tissue, so you can remove the flesh now.
Mr. Fisher just broke up with his girlfriend and he's feeling a little down.
Well, obviously, it hasn't blackened your soul like it has mine.
I'm dead inside.
Not that I can ever remember.
So she stepped on a frog?
She went for a run, stepped on a frog, and buried something.
There's bl*od on the blade, so you landed some hits on the errant Knight. He's injured.
Sure, but we have nothing to compare it to.
Was he wearing armor?
Sweets. How are you feeling?
Jangled.
A lot of change in his pocket?
An attack is an acceptable excuse, Dr. Brennan. I'll have Hodgins examine the sword and see what he can find.
Any way for you to get bl*od samples?
Maybe you could get the names of a few more Black Knights from these Black Knights?
Mr. Fisher!
What is it?
Valerie...
One of the suspects in the case Valerie Daniels? How did you get it?
Now we do, yeah.
You spent the night with a suspect?
Sure.
That is one horrible way to die.
Does that extend to disciplinary action? 'Cause you are in big trouble, my melancholy friend.
The only thing I'm willing to hear from you right now, Mister Firsher, is "I hereby tender my resignation."
You mean if it really was a sword from 100 AD, you'd understand k*ll for it?
You said he was a knight.
I think she means that you should go with her.
Is it real?
Can you trace the manufacturer?
Hodgins, are you trying to help someone? Because that's not in your character.
All right, what have you got?
I won't require that, Mr. Fisher, but I do require discretion.
Kroon the Blacksmith.
Okay. What k*ll him?
Clark Edison, meet Special Agent Seeley Booth.
Yes. Construction worker. Foundation collapse.
I'm still not completely certain what Dr. Brennan thinks of me.
Well?
I meant Clark Edison.
The absolute brilliant forensic anthropologist who'd bite off his own arm to be your assistant.
No. I want you to be certain of your choice.
It's just that you've turned down seventeen applicants already. It's a rarified discipline. Aren't many more candidates to check out... BRENNAN: I'll cover the lab work until I find the right person.
Something chewed on the skull.
Human, Booth. Doctor Brennan is saying human.
What am I looking at?
An osteoma that size can cause headaches, infected sinuses maybe worse.
We'll check with local Ear Nose and Throat Surgeons to see if the pain drove our v*ctim to seek help. Nice job.
I'd hire Clark, but it's not my call.
Usually when you get all blustery, its 'cause you think something's your fault.
Yeah. Exposing a parent to the death penalty can have a chilling effect on a partnership.
Well, I gotta wonder if deep down anybody is that rational.
If you are looking for reassurance, find someone who's not such a good friend, Seeley.
Well, the osteoma is a perfect match. It's him.
Obviously we are looking for someone who really really hates classical music.
A twenty-two year old willowy kid, walking around with three million bucks under his arm?
You arrested the Deputy Director of the Secret Service for voyeurism?
That is awesome and really, really stupid. You got to love a self-destructive man with values.
Bingo, baby.
Shell companies owning defective titles, blah, blah.
k*ll heaven.
Uh, Dr. Brennan, if this building has been used for some sort of ritual cannibalistic k*ll as indicated by a skull which has been gnawed upon, a trained anthropologist's eye could be crucial to the case. Rationally speaking.
There's room in the basement.
Can you confirm that any of these are Gavin Nichols?
Alright. Let's get that going.
And probably materials stolen from other v*ctim.
Well, Iraq's not a vacation.
Have you been to bed yet?
How can you tell?
Ten bones from six separate v*ctim.
Obviously, Jason Harkness was collecting parts from different people to create ... what?
There's potential for a lot of v*ctim here.
Yes, WE did, Zack.
Why did they send you back from Iraq?
You're very good for our team approach.
All due respect to the army psychiatrist, but that's a helluva lot more than what some other people get. Go home, Zac-a-roni, get some rest.
If it was su1c1de then someone provided him with the dagger.
Interesting. Gavin Nichols lost his father when he was twelve.
This entire vault is filled with evidence, who know where it will take us?
Well, what k*ll him if it wasn’t the bleachers closing?
That explains why every news source in town wants to confirm his death.
I’ll inform the press.
Boys, this better be good.
Okay, turn it on.
By gelatinous matrix you meant ambrosia salad?
Yeah, uh. Hodgins, is that my own personal blender? From the kitchen?
Did you get it from the kitchen?
Is it labeled "Personal Property of C.S." on the bottom?
Hodgins here?
Do you know where he is?
Can I leave a message for him with you?
Are you serious?
I mean, you live together, right?
But you spend all your time together.
Tox results for R.J. Manning. Negative for alcohol and sedatives.
Somebody emptied a bottle on him. More interestingly, he was on steroids. I still haven’t found an explanation for the extra synovial fluid in the joints.
Steroids, bourbon, synovial fluid. What’s the problem?
It’s Hodgins actual area of expertise and Hodgins is your area of expertise. So by my calculations, all the areas of expertise are overlapping perfectly.
Thank you.
Not one. Coach’s confidence in his boys was justified. At least as far as steroids.
Two of the samples came back positive for Cephixime.
Most commonly used to treat gonorrhea.
Nope, two of the urine samples came back with not only identical levels of antibiotic, but the exact same specific gravity.
Yes. My guess is that someone with gonorrhea is trying to protect someone using steroids. Nice bunch of boys.
Yes, Angela?
Really? Why is that?
But you are his girlfriend.
Ah.
In your opinion, I crossed a line.
I apologize, Angela.
But you might be able to understand why I was a little confused, because apparently you’re not always against bringing your personal life to work.
Cause what you’re doing there is extremely personal.
I’m seeing parts of you and Hodgins I’d rather leave to the imagination.
So far, just me and a very appreciative security guard.
Good. That’s the only copy.
Mm, no.
I’m looking at a cockroach’s leg?
Are they usually blue like that?
R.J. Manning wore blue... ...lipstick?
Yes, thank you.
Yes, Dr. Hodgins.
Angela?
You might wanna...turn the volume down.
This is saliva I found in Manning’s shorts. I also found pre-seminal fluid.
That he was sexually stimulated.
Yes, but do those erections produce saliva?
Zack also found this in the v*ctim’s hair.
No, esophageal mucus. Commonly known as a loogie.
Well, perhaps he was k*ll before ejaculation.
Talk about multi-tasking.
According to a cockroach I know, she might have been wearing blue lipstick.
Two people involved. v*ctim and m*rder.
v*ctim, m*rder and v*ctim’s special friend.
Any information you might have that could lead us to either the special friend or the m*rder.
Gonorrhea bacteria? And we’re back to R.J.’s special friend. If only we could figure out who she is.
The members of this team are very close.
Justine Berry’s not the one who left her saliva or her lipstick on the v*ctim’s privates.
You found blue lipstick.
Shock Rah by Zensual ANGELA: Zen plus sensual. Chakra. Shock Rah. Rah as in Rah-Rah, as in Rah-Rah-Sis-Boom-Bah.
Okay, you started off in English, but I have no idea where you ended up.
Ah, Atlantic State Jaguars.
DNA evidence is in. The bl*od on the weight, is definitely R.J.’s.
The loogie.
Two things about the saliva. One, is that it did not come from the same person who provided the loogie.
Two, we got a partial match on the saliva from one of the cheerleaders.
Sorry to interrupt, but you really need to see this.
All thirteen STRs.
Nice to have you back Dr. Edison. Wasn't sure we'd see you again.
No stomach contents for me to analyze because the tiger ate the stomach.
I agree. Some kind of w*apon sliced along what's left of the right pelvis and thigh transecting the femoral artery. He died of a good old-fashioned bleed out.
Judging from decomp and... the amount the tiger ate, I estimate time of death to be late Friday night, early Saturday.
Are you sure?
Okay, that's enough, Angela.
No. I knew Dr. Welton. We lived together for two years.
No...Let's just find out who k*ll him, okay?
I haven't even seen Andrew for 10 years. It's silly for me to be reacting like this.
What about his daughter? Who's going to tell Michelle? Had he remarried?
Yeah, I'm not surprised. Michelle's mom died during childbirth. I don't think Andrew could ever go through loving anyone like that again. Michelle became everything to him.
Yeah. What a terrible time to lose her father.
No, no social worker. If there's no one else, I have to do it. I'll talk to her.
I was her mom for almost two years, Seeley. She should hear it from someone who loved her father.
No, I'll be fine.
Camille Saroyan?
You were 4 when your father and I were together. I moved away just after you turned 6. But I remember your party. You were sitting on the clown's lap while he made balloon animals. And you kept handing them to me and I had this armful of... MICHELLE : I don't remember...and my dad's not here right now.
I know. I am working on a case with the FBI, Michelle. Could you please sit down?
Michelle, we've found your father. I'm very sorry to have to tell you that he's...he passed away.
I'm so sorry, honey. Is anyone staying with you?
We believe he was k*ll.
I thought she'd remember me. I was a friend of the family.
I know this is difficult, but I have to ask a few questions.
In order to pursue an investigation...
Did your father have any enemies? Any difficult relationships?
You should have brought a social worker. She...didn't remember me at all.
Do you have anything?
Let's not take too much time.
There's a k*ll out there, Dr. Edison, so be thorough and fast. I have the results of Weldon's tox screen. There were opiates in his bl*od. Hydrocodone and carisoprodol.
That doesn't sound like Andrew.
Andrew was not a drug abuser. Look for physical indicators that might warrant opiate use. I am meeting Booth at the hospital if you have any information, which I hope you will.
I took Michelle to ballet class and parent/teacher conferences. I read her to sleep. When I saw her and it all came back. I thought it would for her. Some of it at least.
Yeah, but he knows you. He knows what you've done for him.
It's a family, Seeley. A family that didn't work out.
Maura. It's been a long time.
Yeah. This is Special Agent Booth. Dr. Bailey's Roosevelt's Chief Administrator.
We were both residents here. It was a really competitive environment.
Yes, I saw her this morning.
He was found in the tiger habitat. We need a list of everyone who attended the benefit: staff, caterers, park personnel assigned to the event.
You always did like being in charge.
Andrew usually made his rounds at night. Who would have seen him before he went to the benefit?
Do you know if he was taking anyone to the benefit?
Right.
He was in pain. That would explain the opiates. I also found ibuprofen, which he would've taken to reduce the inflammation.
Well, he wouldn't have done it. Not Andrew.
Not someone's nature.
We know people through our feelings, Dr. Brennan. You trust Booth because of what you feel.
And faith in the future. I'm sorry, but feelings are important. Even to you.
Saroyan.
You think Casey k*ll Welton?
She wouldn't have been happy knowing that your best surgeon was disabled.
Is there any other reason Annenburg might have been angry with Andrew?
Anything of value yet?
Questioning people isn't really my thing. Most of the time I just want to b*at them until they tell me what I want to hear.
I haven't seen her again. I imagine Child Services will probably be moving her to a foster home soon.
Didn't we find a blood-soaked shoelace in the remains?
But if there was already an open wound caused by whatever punctured the artery... BRENNAN: Then a plastic kn*fe could be used to enlarge the opening.
No. Someone was trying to make the bleeding stop.
The shoelace was probably used to tie off the femoral artery, but the procedure failed.
I just wanted to find out how you were doing. I know how difficult this must be for you.
And I will. I swear to you. I know what a good man he was. And what a great father. You don't remember?
The reason I left... was between your father and me. It had nothing to do with you, Michelle.
I don't know, if he didn't talk to you about it, I... MICHELLE: I waited for you. I looked out the window for weeks waiting on you to come home. You don't say that you love somebody and then just walk out like that.
Your father and I were going to get married, Michelle. But your father, he...
He was still seeing other women. Even after we were engaged. And I tried to work through it. I loved him. I still do. But after your mother...I don't think your father could ever commit like that again. And that wasn't something I could live with.
Maybe. I'm...I'm sorry I brought it up. I never stopped thinking about you, Michelle. And if there's anything... MICHELLE: I don't need anything from you. Just go. Leave me alone. Go!
She said, uh, that I wasn't good enough for her father and that was why he saw other women.
That's why I left.
The only people who don't mind have just given up.
Right, yes, of course. I'm not quite evolved enough.
Probably was. The only person he ever was faithful to was Michelle.
You're a man.
Are you aware that lionesses do all the hunting?
When I was talking with Ang and Brennan last night about men, it occurred to me that Andrew probably didn't change much when it came to women.
Andrew was set in his routines and if I remember Langston correctly, this guy didn't miss a thing. Hiya, Langston.
It's been awhile.
Yeah, Langston, Dr. Welton.
I'm gonna guess that Andrew kept coming to your motel after me.
Describe her then.
Red hair?
Not right now if you don't mind.
When I left Michelle 10 years ago, I knew Andrew wouldn't say what needed to be said so... BRENNAN: You did it.
No. I didn't know what to say. She was so little and I loved her so much. And I haven't had a child of my own, but I find it impossible to believe anyone...anyone could love a child more. But I had no place in her life anymore so, I had to... BRENNAN: You had to leave room in case Andrew found someone else who might help raise Michelle.
I had this old salt and pepper set my grandmother gave me before she died. Fits together. I kept this one and I gave Michelle the other half. And I told her that whenever she looked at it she should know that at that exact moment, I'd be thinking of her and loving her.
What?
Michelle stopped loving me years ago.
No, we're not the same, Nancy. I left Andrew.
Your father was a good man, Michelle. I still carry him with me. And he loved you. We're both very lucky.
I want you to consider something. You need a place to live now.
I... would like you to come live with me.
I thought...
What do you say we go to New York for the weekend?
Come on! We're two adults with no obligations. Let it go to voice mail. We're not cheating. We're not hurting anybody, Seeley.
Because we work together and we're professionals and it's nobody's business. That's all. So come to New York. We'll go to a musical BOOTH: Talking and singing and talking and dancing and more singing Ya know, if you want to stop what we're doing - just say so.
You can fantasize about pulling out your g*n and sh**ting everyone on stage. You know you like that. Seriously, we'll do something you like. Like, Climbing the outside of the Empire State building or swimming the East River...or.. What? What happened?
How are we gonna get our hands on $8 Million?
He is?
They'll fire you.
How did The Grave Digger catch Brennan and Hodgins together?
Here!
I'm sure she'll appreciate - we're on a deadline.
It means, keep working the case.
I'll look at his notes.
What are you doing?
Let's hear it.
He did it to give his brother more air - so his twin would survive. That's why we found them holding each other.
When we tell Mr. Kent that one of his son's gave his own life in an effort to save his brother, it'll mean something, Zack. Just keep searching, Okay.
Did you find Russ?
Hodgins seems to write everything in some kind of code. I'm gonna have to get Zack over here to break it.
You can read that?
Not ever for the boss?
Booth, I don't think it's a coincidence that he took Brennan when he did.
They're getting low on oxygen.
Booth. They're not cops!
Okay. Zack figured out what stun g*n The Grave Digger uses and how it's modified. Thanks to Angela, we know that The Grave Digger has a customized aluminum casing in the back of his vehicle...
Can I make a suggestion? See, this is exactly why I was sent here. You guys are brilliant, but you won't make intuitive leaps.
She's right. We should assume the message is from Hodgins not from Brennan.
Because they're buried alive...
So you think our v*ctim was a giant toddler?
Sarcasm does not play well on the forensic platform.
Time of death, based on decomp, between two and four days.
Makes sense... gets easier after the first chop.
We'll have the FBI check with local orthopedic physicians.
Doctor Hodgins, have you moved yet?
So, before the giant toddler was k*ll he was brewing coffee on the seashore?
Where is this fly egg from?
Seriously?
I know you're upset about breaking up with Angela, Doctor Hodgins, and I know you're upset about losing Zack, but despite your personal problems, this is a workplace and your attitude leaves a lot to be desired.
You get anything off the v*ctim's cell phone?
He only called one number.
Who is it?
Yes. Forward Retro is the publisher that dropped Jared Addison after his second book. The one that never wanted to talk to him again.
Doctor Hodgins, HODGINS: Shhh. My egg from the v*ctim's shoes is hatching.
You need quiet for that.
Pushing it, Doctor Hodgins, how's about we say you've found the line?
Jared Addison's old lady girlfriend used to work in a nursery.
I understand. I thought you being the one who moved in there would be easiest for Zack.
Yeah.
It wasn't bl*od. On the shovel, it wasn't bl*od.
This is not good.
Well I doubt he got a weekend pass.
Does Doctor Sweets know that he helped you?
Well, Zack was right.
As always.
Okay.
The chair?
Given the pump, female v*ctim. The skin elasticity, what’s left of it, indicates she was probably between twenty and forty years old.
And the remaining soft tissue appears to have been scavenged.
I’m gonna need a spatula to scrape off all the flesh and the organs.
Judging from the amount of putrefactive liquid on top of the car, she landed here first, wedging up against the shaft.
I don’t see any hemorrhagic tissue. v*ctim was most likely dead before she was put in here.
Right, except for the mangled dead woman.
It’s pretty small. But I’ve seen bodies carried down storm drains narrower than that.
A joint, huh. I can get DNA from the paper.
Stupid enough to jam someone down an elevator shaft?
What have we got?
Well, I’ve got the when. Vitreous humor from an eyeball confirms time of death sometime between Friday night and Saturday morning. And, her final meal was lettuce, yogurt, chicken and pita.
Most likely. I’ve got them checking Greek restaurants in the neighborhood. Maybe someone made a delivery to her office.
Tox screen came back negative. No drugs, no poison, not even caffeine.
The job gets easier with time, Mr. Fisher. Any leads on who she is?
Hot chick?
Right. You should give it to her.
And I’m kind of your boss.
Anything else, Mr. Fisher?
And?
I’m afraid to ask.
Were you... for or against?
Okay, first of all, I doubt even Dr. Brennan could discover that from impact fissures alone.
And second, that doesn’t indicate what floor she fell from ‘cause the elevator car could have been on any floor in the building when she landed on it.
Eleven or twelve if you count the space between floors.
Fifty-two feet.
Very impressive, Mr. Fisher.
You ever think of finding a girlfriend, Mr. Fisher?
She’s very beautiful.
Too late, that’s just a copy.
You want the chair, don’t you?
Radicular.
I’m a coroner. Tell them... I confused you with a corpse.
You are now. You’re welcome.
Your reconstruction looks good.
This woman was mulched in an elevator shaft. Given her condition, I’m impressed with your work. Come on, Mr. Fisher, let me see a little smile. That’s the ticket.
I looked at several sections of the epidermis from the area of patterned abrasions, didn’t find any hemorrhage in the soft tissue.
Good question. And I have another. Did you figure out cause of death, yet?
Buck up, Mr. Fisher. You give me cause of death, I give you a Kierkegaard t-shirt.
What have we here?
Semen.
This stain... it’s semen.
I was also given a swatch of carpet from the copy room that had a stain. Also semen.
My guess is, the stains will match.
DNA results came back. The two semen stains are a match—the one from her skirt and the one from the copy room floor. But they’re not from her boss. Sorry.
The localized staining would be consistent with blunt force trauma.
Then it was probably caused by a ruptured aneurysm.
But if it’s an accident, it wouldn’t account for the elevator or the semen.
Have you considered Prozac, Mr. Fisher?
Then double your dose ‘cause you’re bringing me down, and that’s hard to do, ‘cause I have worked with death for years and you are making it all look like good times now. So, get it together, okay, Eeyore?
An aneurysm.
You found the hemorrhagic stain that led us here.
Oh, my God. She was k*ll by a staple.
I was filing the DNA test I ran on Gary’s saliva.
No, but I did double-check the semen’s sample from the v*ctim’s skirt with the one on the floor and they do match. And according to the deterioration of the sperm tail, the ej*cul*te is from Friday night.
Yes, and I can also tell that our man is probably of Asian descent.
No. From forty-two specific DNA sequences.
I’m not sure if that’s helpful. There are three billion Asian people in the world.
Dr. Brennan looked a little hurt when I told her you asked me to come out here instead of her.
Like me?
Yeah. The word you're looking for would be "woman" - who, incidentally, makes more money than you.
What can I say? I'm just a girl with feelings.
Male, middle-aged.
These are designer pants and my bodies are always so much - gushier - than Dr. Brennan's.
Looks like a stab wound to the middle of the chest. Naked, wrapped in plastic, bite marks to the face and extremities. Looks like rats.
Looks like he might have been knee-capped. Mob thing, maybe?
Some kind of gemstone.
Based on the rate of decomp, I'd say he's been dead 3 days. Probably dumped Friday night.
Grit from the wounds.
Zack says they match our v*ctim.
Mr. Kneecaps has your home address?
Whoa! So this is what it's like to be a kindergarten teacher.
So if you find this figure on a Gormogon relic...
: What's there?
What's that?
You want to look inside?
What have we got?
You mean the v*ctim is over 50.
That would suggest that Gormogon's what? A minimum of 70 years old?
My god. We have another cannibal out there? An old one?
And we're happy about this because?
Run the new dentals against the NCIC database.
Uh, be on the lookout for a face eating cannibal who uses a walker?
1026? What is it?
Is it code.
How's about that alphanumeric business?
What?
The vault is like a museum of the Gormogons right?
Than why don't we just look in safe deposit box 1026?
Wow.
Exactly how far back should I be standing.
We decided to utilize some of your brighter grad students until we find a full-time forensic anthropologist, remember?
I thought perhaps you might want Vin...cent to shadow you, get a real sense of what you do.
Two - let's call them hippies - found these remains this morning.
Oh, I sold veggie burritos and followed Phish one whole summer. It was fantastic.
Well, if this scrap of cloth is a bathing suit, then probably female.
Heavily degraded by crab and fish. Two to three weeks? That could be a breast implant.
Why is there only half a skeleton?
We'll have Hodgins take a close look for particulates.
What do you see, Mr. Nigel-Murray?
Anything special about these sockets?
We already have Agent Booth to make lame jokes. Let's stick to facts.
Okay, let's stick to relevant facts.
Okay, that could be useful. Especially if you have an explanation.
"Sockets," "eyeballs," "boobs" - I wouldn't use these words when conferring with Dr. Brennan.
Well, in that case, what about the backbone?
Postmortem scraping from the remains being washed up on a stony beach.
Point is, you do now.
He's done very well so far.
I got a serial number off the breast implant. The FBI's tracking it down now.
Ah...that would explain the, um...informative tangents.
Don't tell him that!
Be very careful what you say next, Mr. Nigel-Murray.
Tangents, Mr. Nigel-Murray, tangents and diversions. Perhaps we could keep those to a minimum. The FBI's traced the breast implant to Baltimore plastic surgeon. He replaced a leaking implant for this woman.
There's more tissue on this half. And just because we have the top of a body and the bottom of a body doesn't mean it's all the same body.
Based on the lack of hemorrhagic tissue, this v*ctim was already dead when cut in half.
He?
The pelvic bone can say whatever it wants to say--this part here says female.
It's called a vagina.
Which might be useful information if the fish hadn't eaten our v*ctim's eyelids.
Well, I can do a DNA comparison to find out if these two sets of human remains come from the same v*ctim.
Who is...
And female. We have one v*ctim with two sexes.
Bone marrow and liver remnants contain high concentrations of ethanol estradyal etherone acetate and spironolactone, which is an anti-androgen.
Tox screen shows Stamaril, Havrix Monodose and Engerix-B.
Yellow fever, Hep A and Hep B.
Very good, Mr. Nigel-Murray.
Pastor Patrick Stephenson.
Amazing job, Angela.
She was swimming, she was struck on the head, she drowned. Then how were her fingers damaged and how was she cut in half?
Okay, she was struck by a boat, the keel of a boat. Now we're getting somewhere. Anything on the metacarpals?
We'll show these images to Dr. Brennan.
Okay, so we know Patricia Ludmuller was run over by a boat.
It was a foggy day, she was out there swimming alone. This death could have been accidental.
She was struck once, then the boat turned around to make sure she was dead. Then hurt, disoriented, she reached up to clasp the g*n?
Then she floated on her back.
Yes, Vincent.
I see. You'd like to quit this internship without losing your academic standing.
Can I ask why?
And how is that relevant?
I'll take care of it with Dr. Brennan. We'll move on to another intern.
You're welcome.
Vino Delectable.
Sex?
You know who wears tracksuits?
No. Huge tubs of lard or retired people.
So, not a retiree.
He was sh*t to death?
Dig the skull out first to establish cause of death then give Angela something to work with to ID the guy. Where is Angela?
Does it have to be completely thawed for you to examine?
I need to get some tissue for DNA testing.
Coroner;s report said Kennedy's leg was severed in the car accident.
Yes.
She's seeing evidence of a saw, Booth.
If she's there with you, just detain her.
West Virginia state troopers got a DNA sample at Ice Pick's arrest. This is definitely his leg. Was she pretty?
I mean, the bounty hunter who gave Booth the slip.
What's wrong with your mouth?
Go to a dentist.
She hoodwinked you 'cause she was hot.
Booth - livestock amputation? That is on tough determined old criminal. Be careful.
Why are we doing this? Don't we know that cause of death was brain scrambling due to an ice pick?
Smart. Very little bl*od spilled. How did the v*ctim die?
Oh, God.
Because he could still move his middle finger.
Okay. Time to step out of your comfort zone, people.
We've stopped working. I'd like to start again.
Work what we know. McKenna was probably k*ll by Kennedy. Booth ran afoul of Kennedy.
Okay, is there any forensic evidence on our v*ctim that might lead to Kennedy and Booth?
Okay, what does that tell us?
Keep going.
Let's assume, all this adds up to a place-crime scene. Close your eyes and imagine the smell of all those things. Tobacco, snot, gum, popcorn, a lot of clothing, chocolate-
Upholstery cleaner, Crown Victoria-
Yes.
To tell the FBI they're looking for a one-legged cabbie in Baltimore.
Brennan. You're not alone in this.
We all want to find Booth.
That's a leaf. How do you know?
Of course not.
Now that I can go with.
You think Gallagher might have a place he takes people for that sort of thing.
Mr. Vaziri is Iranian, he's an observant Muslim.
This country was founded on the notion of religious tolerance.
I see some red fibers.
bl*od chemistry shows unusually high levels of relaxin.
So, if she was handcuffed to protect her virginity... Didn't work out so well.
Very descriptively put.
I'm still conducting the autopsy.
If you remove the flesh, I can't find cause of death.
Not if I can rehydrate the tissue.
The salt arrested bacterial development, there's no decomp. If I can rehydrate, I can do a proper autopsy.
Lucky for me, I'm the boss.
I claim one of my freebie-declines.
Okay, very careful, the tissue is fragile.
Can you narrow down what kind of car?
Sure, yeah, go. This is a simple m*rder. Solves itself.
The Ruffer's solution is working.
You're worried about what to tell Dr. Brennan.
Tell Dr. Brennan that unless she can think of a way to examine the bones while leaving the flesh intact, you're both out of luck.
Mr. Vaziri, do you have any idea where all the monitors on the forensic platform have gone?
I didn't have a monitor to check my e-mail. You have created a virtual skeleton.
No, I don't recall -
Well, I'll make sure you get the credit for this with Dr. Brennan.
You don't want credit?
Meaning you found something?
What does that suggest to you?
Oh. Here we go. Are you gonna quote the Quran?
Tell Dr. Brennan she cannot have the remains yet. Hovering will not make this go any faster.
How's about you go bank a prayer, and give me a little breathing space? I apologize, I quip sometimes.
Glycerin, please?
Ruffer's only gets us so far, so I'm going to inject some glycerin around the soft tissue of the ear.
I couldn't see any contusions around the ear, but perimortem bruising is often only visible under certain light wavelengths.
That's right.
We read the same article. Could you turn on the UV light?
Look at that.
Look at the monitor. Assuming sufficient force, that perimortem bruising explains your stapes fracture.
And...?
What?
The tissue damage is distributed evenly.
That it was a single blow.
Some kind of hammer?
Let Booth know.
Some of us take coffee breaks, some of us take smoke breaks, Mr. Vaziri takes a spiritual break.
Nobody. Not very often, anyway, just very rarely in times of great stress.
Thank you.
I am thanking you for stating the fact that you were wrong.
So, do you think this was done by someone who knew what they were doing?
Let's check out the v*ctim's chiropractor's ride.
So you got a warrant?
So you didn't get a warrant?
And own chiropractic tools we might be able to match with the m*rder w*apon?
Hey, not me. But I do have a great idea.
Excellent olfactory talent, Hodgins.
You might want to prepare yourself. - or not.
I think the v*ctim was a minor.
How much of this are ya gonna need?
No finger pads left for prints. How are we on dental records?
Multiple shards of leaded glass embedded in the remaining tissue. Massive contusions congruent with a swan dive onto a hard surface.
No visible tats or track marks.
Not many kids from the suburbs end up rotting in garbage trucks. Fun factoid from the front lines.
Right, Booth's a good Catholic boy.
Are you saying you have enough to assemble a face?
That's a lot of missing and exploited kids.
Narrow the search. To street kids in the foster system.
Because statistically, that's where this boy comes from.
Runaways, street kids, foster system.
I've autopsied a lot of dead kids - car accidents, drug overdoses, drownings. Fine, it's a broad search. Kid in a dumpster - it's a runaway, street kid or foster system.
This is why I was appointed to this job, Dr. Brennan - to streamline the process.
Good. There we go. I guess your first move is to find Kelly Morris.
Hey. DNA from the tissue under the v*ctim's fingernail. Female. And there's nail polish in the gouges on his arm.
Nope. Hodgins also found oxidized iron in the scratches.
The same oxidized iron found on the v*ctim's upper back and shoulder.
That's a reasonable assumption.
She whacks him across the carotid with a pipe-
Exactly.
Find some hair. Match the DNA on that then get started on the, uh, m*rder w*apon.
Hairbrush from Kelly's room provided her DNA. The nail polish from her room also matches the nailpolish we found in the scratch marks on the v*ctim's arm.
Oh, young love. You pour your soul out to some pimple-faced jock with a great body and the emotional maturity of an 11-year old, only to get your heart broken in the back of a red Camero.
Oh, God.
Oh, that special boy with a pipe in his pocket.
What can that possibly tell us?
I prefer he keeps looking for the pipe. It could have Kevin Dylan's DNA on it.
It's my call. No.
Are you telling me I should start looking for your replacement?
Really?
In the interest of this investigation, I'm going to defer to you, Dr. Brennan.
But I will start the search for your replacement.
It was urgent. Why didn't you answer?
Single g*n wound to the chest. You're just in time for the autopsy.
Feeling queasy, Zack?
The b*llet passed through his vital organs and lodged in the rear curvature. Get it out.
Street smart kid like Kelly Morris would have no trouble getting her hands on a g*n.
Booth, if Dr. Brennan were to quit-
If she were to leave the Jeffersonian-
And you?
No, you don't, Seeley.
What if I fired her? What would you do?
So what? He was k*ll by Hamlet?
When it comes to bugs, slime, crud and compost, you're the man.
Oh. Why didn't she tell me?
Ballistics confirms that the b*llet that k*ll Kevin Duncan came from Fran Duncan's g*n.
On Kevin Duncan, definitely. And since Kelly Morris has confessed-
What evidence do you have of that.
Can you run the scenerio through your magic holographic crystal ball thingy?ANGELA: Too many variables. But I have another idea.
Kelly Morris, right.
She pushed him then tried to save him by grabbing his arm?
Kelly grabs his arm-
Well, that theory explains the physical evidence.
You were right about the rose.
I wish you'd eat some of these fries. Save me from myself. They're really good with garlic mayonnaise.
Uh, huh. Do you see a solution?
That sounds like Booth.
Not everyone's brain works as fast as yours. I have to mull sometimes. Are - are you familiar with that concept?
I'm in charge. But out of respect for you, I could extend - Did you ever play Monolopy?
Well, they have this thing called a 'Get out of jail free' card. Think of it as a free pass to defy me. No explanation needed. No recriminations. No repercussions.
One a week.
Three per week.
Okay, yes. He did. But he did it with a good heart and I'd really appreciate it if you didn't let him know. Please.
It's true. He's awful like that.
Oh, God. I know. I hate him. Well, I don't really.
Would you, please.
We don’t have enough crucified corpses of our own? Now the Vikings are sending them?
In that case, they should solve the ones they have or they’ll never get any practice.
But the Norwegians say the v*ctim died here and then got shipped to Norway.
Nothing forensic, it’s just police work. The remains were found in the possession of a Norwegian black metal band.
Apparently, it’s a genre of heavy metal featuring macabre imagery of death and horrific violence. Skalle. That’s the name of the band? Skalle.
You speak Norwegian?
Well, Skalle...
Skall-ay...
They stole the body from an American metal band while on tour in DC six months ago.
Desiccated flesh on the face and scalp.
Perhaps enough for DNA.
What’s, what’s the story on this?
Beg pardon?
This is definitely m*rder.
Ah, just another Saturday night.
A 278-pound puppy.
Prelim tox results came back negative for embalming fluid.
m*rder and his remains crucified for the entertainment of people who hate life.
Do you think she actually enjoys this?
What is that, some king of systemic poison?
There’s our boy.
What about real names?
Okay. I’ll tell Booth to search for a death metal band named Spew.
That is some determined desecration going on.
Sweets sent over a briefing.
Death metal enthusiasts prefer morbid, horror-centric venues for performance. In addition, they tend to perform for their fans in the same place they practice and sometimes squat.
You are going to be so proud.
He’s not finished.
Supinator.
One percent of size 11 teenagers isn’t good enough?
Are you satisfied that this was the boot worn by the v*ctim while he was still alive?
You want to say "King of the Lab"?
This skeleton was carted from DC to Norway, then used as a prop at ultraviolent concerts. There’s bound to be damage.
Suggesting the damage done to the pelvic bone happened very near the time of death?
Someone went digging into the v*ctim’s gluteus?
So... the v*ctim was sh*t in the ass, then k*ll in some way yet to be determined, then the k*ll dug the b*llet out of the...
Okay. Let’s have Hodgins swab for trace evidence. God knows what he’ll find. Maybe a little piece of Norway.
Okay, obviously fake.
It’s the same girl every time?
Nice. We can get an ID from that. Can you arrange these shows in chronological order?
Clark determined that the g*n wound to the v*ctim’s ilium occurred ten months prior to his death.
Have you got another angle on this? Oh, there. The b*llet splinters his instrument.
Not so tough when the bl*od is real, are you, metal boy?
All of the pieces of ship without remains attached, straight to the early American workroom. Door on your right.
Take it up on the platform.
Okay. How much of this is there?
So, when you said old remains, the ship part of it just slipped your mind?
Or give me nightmares. One or the other.
How? These people have been dead for nearly 150 years.
Over here, now. Uh, not kidding, even a little bit. Dr. Hodgins.
That. What the hell is it?
Alien sea-life hitchhikes in on a slave ship and that's all you can say? Interesting?
What's he talking about?
Please tell me you're kidding.
Okay, the only way I can get DNA to ID our ID thief, is by using bone marrow, but your alien organism has sucked it dry.
How can you not be able to ID a fluffy pink worm? How many of those could there possibly be?
Why does no-one seem to be working on our m*rder v*ctim, Ms. Wick?
I..it's nothing. Hany...was my great-grandmother's name. If you two can't stay focused on the Moloney case, we're going to have issues.
So happy to hear that.
Oh no.
Can you please get to the point?
Do you have the results back on the maggots from the cougar cruise?
Ms. Wick has already confirmed the m*rder w*apon, everyone else is working on the slave ship, which makes you the clog in my drain, Dr. Hodgins.
This is my 'what the hell are you talking about' look.
Why would the v*ctim have glue on his bones?
Ponder it while you put the maggots in the blender. Hopefully you can pull enough DNA to prove that Liam Moloney was in that locker.
Yeah, Booth called, he thinks Claire Casper did it, but there's no evidence to tie her to the crime.
Great.
Interested, is that what I'm supposed to be?
That because I'm black, I should be all over this.
I already know what happened. My family were property, along with about fifteen million other Africans, they were traded like cattle, and they died like cattle, and I am trying really hard not to let those bones out there get to me.
It's fine, it's all good.
No, uh, what's going on?
And stabs him straight through the mouth.
If the abrasions to Liam Moloney's skeleton were caused by the barnacles on the boat, there may be evidence in the barnacles.
DNA's back from the bl*od we found under those barnacles. There's two types: one is consistent with Liam Moloney, the other's a match for Claire Casper.
Booth wanted evidence, looks like we got it.
These people were wrenched from their homeland, and disappeared into the cold seas of the Atlantic, forgotten, until today. We're very proud to announce that, thanks to the hard work of the Jeffersonian staff, the remains found on the Amalia Rose have been matched with the names on the manifest, and they will be buried at the Great Oak Cemetery in Maryland, but their names and faces will live on here, at the Jeffersonian. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to present the v*ctim of the Amalia Rose.
There's some kind of viscous film on the humerus and scapula. I'll take a swab for Hodgins.
Sweets, you saw somebody die.
We'll call if we need you, I promise. We'll have Hodgins drive you home.
It's dented.
Something blue pierced his clavicle and went through to the back of his neck. That would have sliced through the carotid artery.
And what does all of this mean?
Okay, if that's his tooth, what's that in the middle of it?
Of course. It's a new surgery to restore sight.
So the v*ctim was blind.
Of course you'd like that.
Go for it.
I beg your pardon?
Yeah, it's ironic.
Hodgins.
And now I'm in a sixth-grade science fair.
Is that the color that was found on the bones?
Is that leather?
The v*ctim's?
This could've come from whoever k*ll Martin Aragon. What do you know. King of the lab.
Yes, but I wanted to hear how it sounded with a touch of modesty.
Not for the person it hits, just anyone else in the room.
Perhaps 'cause the ammunititon is so rare, we could trace buyers.
The b*llet exited our v*ctim, shattered a glass object behind him before disintegrating.
Okay, then we find that glass and find where he was k*ll.
Let's not get emotional, Ms. Wick.
You found where he was murded.
Looks like someone took a flamethrower at a Sasquatch!
Someone finally k*ll a mascot?
Mister Vaziri, do you have the X-Rays?
Now that's what I call team spirit I'm a wisecracking pathologist with a dark sense of humor.
The b*llet Arastoo found in the v*ctim's remains was a 22 caliber, light and relatively undamaged.
Which is consistent with ROTC small arms... Cut to- Interrogation room
For example, these two boys were carrying on a sexual relationship with each other.
All of it, his own.
Vaginal contributions were found on eight of the sets of sheets; none from Molly Briggs, but Dr. Hodgins did find something more than semen on Beaver's sheets.
Ointment.
Okay, we get it!
Even estrogen cream?
Also, I finished my autopsy and the b*llet sh*t by Greg Harmalard was definitely not the cause of death.
For at least 12 hours.
No, stop! This is an unnecessary experiment. The height of the fall can be calculated mathematically.
Why do you need to bond?
Go grab a beer together, but I am saying no to this experiment
I find that you don't pay attention during the first six.
1.37 meters onto a hard surface.
Yup! Dr. Brennan is gonna stare at the bones until they speak to her.
Ok.
Best two out of three!
Damn!
Alright!
A very small hole, perhaps an ice pick, punctured his aorta, he bled to death.
We found the hacker. He told Sweets he put some very sensitive images in a USB drive for Beaver.
Not exactly
She could be in her forties
Everything okay here?
You know, m*rder and stuff. Just another day at the office. How 'bout you?
I'm running DNA on the hairs I pulled from the skull. There's something funky about it. The roots confirm brown hair -- the blonde is from oxidized thiols evident in the hair shaft.
I've got results cooking, so --
I should be able to run a tox screen with the tissue left on her clavicle.
She was wearing makeup?
She has false teeth?
Baby teeth.
Oh, my god. That's Brianna Swanson.
It's the "evening wear" category that gets me. My evening wear's a ratty T-shirt and a mud mask. There's bleeding evident under the mental foramen.
Her neck was broken.
I assume that means something.
The original police report said Brianna's father was a roofer.
I'll call Booth.
What caused the deformity? Was it genetic?
Oh, it gets better.
Her tox screen came back with traces of somatropin, tetracycline, and glycopyrronium bromide.
No prescriptions were ever issued.
If Jackie's willing to risk her child's life to win these pageants --
So she was b*at after she died.
Can you tell anything about the shoes? Size? Make?
And Hodgins said he found fragments of steel in the jacket.
Can't ask Cam what?
I just came to ask if you'd made any progress on the cellulose.
Okay.
Fine. What'd you tell him?
Why?
Why not?
Don't think we have time for that. I say go.
Won't be an issue. It's always fun to flirt in the workplace. But out there, when fantasy becomes a reality, it's a drag.
It will be awful. You'll both realize it's not meant to be. There'll be a couple of days of awkwardness, and then everything goes back to normal.
Why?
Ooh. Ahh. What mystery?
That whole area was thoroughly searched within hours of her disappearance.
Washed the remains down to the treatment plant.
I'll tell Booth.
Could this be a candy bar wrapper?
Well, there were a lot of things I wasn't supposed to do as a kid. I still did them. I haven't changed much.
Not a match. Sorry.
Milk Blast Bar.
It's about the cheapest, worst ice cream bar you can get. Available only at ... Red Shed convenience stores.
I thought they stopped making them.
Hodgins found the wrapper ... with her remains.
"Little Miss Raspberry Blossom, Culpepper, Virginia."
It's dated 1976.
Oh, my God. It's like that Texas cheerleading thing, where the mother took out her daughter's main competitor.
Hello.
So what you found on her jacket was from her being dragged?
I've been a pathologist for 13 years and I admit, I am...a little nauseated.
I'm gonna go with the wood chipper on this.
Did the Samarians chop up the body into little tiny bits first?
A black pearl?
Did they chop the bodies into little tiny bits first?
Find out how many corpses we're dealing with.
I found something interesting on the cellular level.
No hemorrhagic tissue.
It means the v*ctim was dead before being chopped up. You care about that right?
Now this here shows that the cell burst from the inside out.
Frostbite can do that.
Yes! Exactly! The water in the cells crystallizes and explodes.
What was it then?
It's obvious. He was frostbitten while climbing Everest. Then struck by a meteor then dumped into a vacant lot in two garbage bags and eaten by crows.
Hey, it's a start.
You know you're grounded, right?
What'd I tell you?
Why?
And?
How?
What if the cellular damage and the fractures were caused by the same thing? The cells could have burst as a result of ice micro crystals having formed as the body was rapidly frozen.
You have my permission to confer with Dr. Hodgins on the subject.
Any damages come out of your pay.
He enjoys this way too much.
Lab results, from the CBC and biopsy on our v*ctim.
These numbers are fatal.
Diane Sidman had a full physical two weeks ago. Guess what? Clean bill of health.
Have you found something?
Looks very smooth.
A possible source of Diane Sidman's leukemia.
And that would have b*rned the v*ctim. We would have seen that.
The woman spent almost all her time at work.
Probably because you feel bad that Dr. Brennan found evidence of a tumor that you missed?
So she said hopefully, metaphorically you're looking for insect legs?
Two of them, yes.
Okay. I'll have Dr. Hodgines check them for microscopic particulates, if he hasn't lit out for Timbuktu yet.
I don't get what that means.
The v*ctim was k*ll, we're not positive how yet, then frozen then shaken until all the bones fell apart?
These two were on their way to a romantic encounter under the stars and literally tripped over the remains.
I've got patchy tissue. But this level of decomp pushes things into your territory. I haven't touched it yet.
Dumped at the top of the hill?
Would explain the amount of fresh mud and leaves on the body.
With this degree of decomp, why would it matter?
Wow, you're not kidding.
You are so going to regret telling this story.
No, that's way past really not normal.
Cooked.
What a charmingly inappropriate greeting, Dr. Hodgins.
Well, now I feel a bit... rejected.
So when do I get my turn with him?
Excellent.
The guy was cooked, Hodgins. Odd is kind of a relative term.
See? Right there. There's some kind of pattern on what's left of the skin tissue. I'm hoping a more artistic eye than mine can make sense of it.
Yes, that's exactly what they are.
Here's the thing, though. Our v*ctim's clothing doesn't have any buttons.
, in the lab: Skin slippage. Our v*ctim was pressed up against another body and during whatever heating process the two went through, the second corpse's tissue basically melted onto our v*ctim.
I just got off the phone with Hodgins. He's knee-deep in compost.
Happy as a pig in...what pigs like to be in.
You said you had things to show me?
Consistent with defensive wounds?
So, there was a fight before he was sh*t?
I thought you said it was a b*llet hole.
So we're back to no known cause of death?
He was stabbed? By what?
Okay then. Enjoy.
And fingernails. I may be able to get some scrapings, maybe even a print.
Can you pinpoint how long it would take for her to reach this level of decomp?
Who catches two people cheating, but k*ll them a day apart?
I will get a bucket of cold water, I swear.
Somebody tried to save her.
FBI sent over some info on our latest v*ctim. She was a cashier at one of Franklin Curtis's Natural Sun Markets in New Jersey.
They think she was hiding. Earlier this year, she accused one of her coworkers of stalking her. Check him out.
I know, right? Guy's name is Noel Liftan.He was fired. Emma filed a restraining order. Booth is trying to track him down. Any progress on time of death?
Right. Not so accidental.
What about the m*rder w*apon used on Frank? Find anything yet?
They're close together. He didn't seem to move much.
Dr. Brennan, I need you to see some thing.
When Zach told me his findings, I decided to run DNA tests on the tissue samples from both v*ctim. Multiple matching RFLPs. Our v*ctim were related. If our m*rder thought he k*ll Emma and her lover, he was very wrong.
Yeah, well, I hate to throw ants in your picnic, but I recovered DNA from beneath Emma's fingernails...Charlie Rogan didn't attack Emma Billings. Her assailant was female.
But there's more. I noticed some odd similarities, so I compared Emma's own DNA to that of her attacker. There was a 25% commonality.
Only 5 days? This is an extreme rate of decomp.
Ugh. Opportunistic little bastards.
Dr. Brennan. Exactly how similar is this situation to your book?
Cheery.
Any hair? Other goodies that can give us DNA?
v*ctim was in the ocean, Hodgins, lotta sand there.
Okay. Try to locate the source. What about the tape itself? Composition, brand -
Cool.
What? Of course. I only - I bought it - ya know it's on a pile I'm waiting - No. I don't. Please don't tell her. It's just after dealing with m*rder all day, I can't bring myself to go home and read about it for kicks.
Feminist trash. You know. Woman finds her power, leaves her oppressive husband, discovers freedom and fulfillment with an artist who knows how to cry and make love like an animal.
Pretty much, yeah.
Let me know if you find any organics on that tape.
Rats sure made quick work of her. So all the v*ctim in Dr. Brennan's book go eaten?
I got it. Lots of gore with a splash of social commentary. No wonder it's a best seller. Ooh good. Lots of tissue left over here.
So we've got a b*llet?
We need to X Ray us some rodents.
Locate the a*mo thief?
Well, I fed them all a mixture of extra strength laxative and soft tissue dilator when they arrived, so...shouldn't be long now
Oh, right. You think that's safe?
No threats on these v*ctim either.
Sadie Keller. Found something irregular. Oxygen saturation levels in the bl*od were extremely low. I think she might have been unconscious before she was k*ll.
I know. My guess would be drug induced. I'm about to run a tox screen. The thing is - why would the k*ll render this v*ctim unconscious?
So...this is no help to us.
Can we trace the manufacturer?
I heard sales are increasing because of the m*rder.
Just remember, at the end of your books, Kathy Reichs always gets the m*rder. How long will this take?
Meaning...
We get the idea, thanks.
Each sh*t in a different part of the body. Very unusual for someone who executes his v*ctim.
Through the forehead, execution style.
Well, the toxicology screen came back negative.
I've never seen a pattern like that.
The k*ll injected Sadie with and excessive amount of insulin to render her unconscious. Being a diabetic, Hank would have easy access to insulin.
Taken the ants, did a great deal of damage to the epidermis, it's been difficult to get narrative of the injuries.
I filtered the lens so that it only allows UV wavelengths of less than 400 nanometers. That way we can see bruises and injury patters that are normally invisible.
And these marks on the arms - they look like hand prints. Like her k*ll grabbed her repeatedly all along her arms.
Which is?
All three m*rder. Each one linked forensically to one of the three suspects. Not bad. What are you waiting for, Booth? Go get the bad guys!
Liquefactions suggests he’s been there at least eight months.
Fat globule.
Rendered brain matter.
And this is just goo.
Bingo! A chunk of liver, enough for a tox screen.
Wait. Baby, like a small human?
Uh, yes. I do. And you brought this up now... why?
Booth. Whadda ya know?
Weren’t we investigating a death?
The way they’re spaced, they’re positioned to secure a prosthetic hairpiece. Those are not very common.
With Booth.
The v*ctim is Spencer Holt. Missing almost a year. He was a wine critic. Apparently he could destroy a vineyard with one review.
You and Brennan, you’re going to have a baby?
She told everyone. It’s probably on the news by now.
So you decided?
I know you, Seeley. You’re going to do it. You want to do it without really doing it. But it’s still doing it even if you’re not doing it the way it should be done.
And what will it do for you?
A piece of you?
Sure.
Yes.
Is that what I think it is?
Actually, I was thinking Nana Shirley’s teeth.
Fisher, have you ever just taken a moment to forget yourself? Watch, like, the Three Stooges and just laugh?
I tried. Tox screen on the remnants of the liver was inconclusive.
But I did find some inorganic agents mixed in with the liquefied tissue. Might help us find cause of death.
Neither will Booth. Guess all we can do is board up the windows and hope the levees hold.
Exactly right.
Please, we’re gonna go nuts.
Aresenic.
This isn’t a high enough concentration to k*ll him.
So Jenny Holt found out her husband was cheating on her, stabbed him, and left us a chemical fingerprint.
I was going out to dinner.
Very much.
But you said the design you found on the glass confirmed that it was a Bedford Creek bottle.
So... after all this, we have no w*apon or cause of death?
Okay.
So if someone fills counterfeit bottles with cheap wine and ships out a couple thousand cases saying it’s from Bedford Creek, they could make some serious money.
Okay, we don’t know what that means.
They’re getting a second opinion.
Usually.
Okay, do you have a medical degree? I don't think so. Okay, your pupillary response is fine.
We have to bag her and take her to the lab.
Yeah.
It's no big deal. I'm just gonna put this cap over your hair and bag your hands.
Anyone for mistletoe?
Interesting.
There's something in your hair.
Tox results show that our b*mb had propranolol in his bloodstream. It's a beta-blocker popular with performers, soldiers... and su1c1de b*mb.
Also, Hodgins swabbed this.
Found high concentrations of limonene. It's a citrus fruit derivative.
Yup. And I have no idea how the limonene got there. Unless the guy was snorting orange Kool-Aid.
Yes, it would. And what is with everybody today?
Oh. Did Dr. Brennan ask you about Christmas dinner?
Interesting. Clear off, Sweets. We have to ID our Christmas-in-December b*mb.
Oh, dear God. I'm going to yak.
Seems to be some kind of burn on the interior surface. Get that to Hodgins.
Hey, I was just thinking of you.
Gingerbread house, talking reindeer, peppermint bark... I went a little crazy. I know how much your dad loved Christmas.
Still working on that.
That would be hard to wrap.
That sounds fantastic, but I only have a couple days off.
They did?
You... really... thought this through.
You really want to go? It's that important to you?
Oh, you're not a worry. You... If that's what you want, then of course you can go.
Any of that unique enough to pinpoint our b*mb maker?
Sweets says the pirate radio guy doesn't fit the profile. He's an extrovert, and we're looking for a lock-yourself-in-the-basement type of fellow.
So the expl*sive was confined to the front of the vest.
The manubrium doesn't just get up and walk away. Unless... the b*mb's own bones became shrapnel.
These just came through from the hospital. Pre-op photos of the cab driver and his x-rays.
He was probably trying to shield his face from the expl*si*n. We think the fragment in his zygomatic arch may be the missing manubrium fragment.
Ms. Wick's working on it now. We're hoping they'll give us a better sense of the b*mb.
As soon as Hodgins figures out the b*mb.
We ran the details of the b*mb against the EXIS database. It's an identical match for a number of devices all built by the same man.
He got busted in the '90s for robbing a Western Union office.
No. He's been dormant since he got out of prison.
Yeah. And it looks like he came back with a bang.
I went to wash my hands just now, but there was no soap in the dispenser. It had to be...
Hodgins.
...
Your analysis of the emulsion b*mb included detergent.
Oh, my God.
You told him that?
I do not want an expl*sive device in my lab.
No!
What's that?
We have to pull the evidence trays.
It's H11209, biological evidence from witness Georgia Hartmeyer.
I thought it was just blast residue, but that stain's definitely on the inside.
Did you have to do that?
And it couldn't have gotten there unless she helped assemble the b*mb.
I don't want you to go to Hawaii.
You and me... we're the closest thing we have to family.
And family spends Christmas together. We're spending Christmas together.
If I let you go, you're gonna have a good time...
Everything. Because that's what we'll be to each other, just two people who don't spend Christmas together.
I know deep down you care. ...I just hope not too deep down.
No. It's my job to prove to you every day that you are loved in this world. And if doing that makes you angry...
Well, then that's the price I pay. But you will know beyond a doubt that I can't just let you go flying off and not have it absolutely ruin my Christmas. Because right now, the way things are, there's... no Christmas without you.
What happened to the "down with Christmas, let's hump like bunnies" thing?
Ah, that explains the antlers.
That's because I'm here to talk about brain damage in veterans.
I have nothing to say about Logan Bartlett.
I have been up all night, going over forensic anthropology and entomology reports. I can't confirm the identity of the child in my morgue.
I'm good at my job, Caroline, they're not gonna fire me.
Thank you. Glad to be here.
In the last 8 months, I've performed autopsies on six veterans; four fought in Iraq, two in Afghanistan. All six show signs of brain damage consistent with improvised expl*sive devices.
My slab?
Oh, that's not ethical!
Caroline, I'm very good at my job!
The best anthropologist is in Indonesia, the best cop is in Afghanistan and the best entomologist is in France!
How'd you do that?
Brain damage in veterans.
Three months ago a 2-year-old boy, Logan Bartlett, disappears; stolen in the middle of the night from his mother's house.
The media does, and they're saying I'm incompetent because I won't confirm or deny.
The bug guy says insect activity indicates that the time of death was between six and twelve weeks ago.
Yeah; the bug guy is not Hodgins. In fact, nobody is any of you.
I had no idea you thought that.
Thank you, guys.
Nobody.
Mr Vasiri switched majors from forensic to cultural anthropology; he's interning at the Baghdad museum.
What happened is you put your own desires ahead of everything else and you left.
Yes, I am angry, Dr Brennan. We had a great thing going and you just... You let it fall apart.
Yeah. And that about sums up my total knowledge on the case: it's a male child.
You're suggesting that this v*ctim is over three years old?
Despite his small size?
About what?
So it can't be Logan Bartlett.
Comes from working on bus engines, I guess.
Nice! What have you got?
You see that table over there? That's you office; and you have to share.
If these remains are Asian, that might help explain his size and this is all adding up to the likelihood that this is not Logan Bartlett.
That's what you came back for, isn't it? Help out Cam?
A puncture; like he was stabbed?
How else would a sharp piece of wood come into contact with the hyoid?
What about him being tied up like this?
So we're not looking at a m*rder, we're looking at negligence, or maybe even an accident?
Korea?
That would explain the malnutrition. North Korea's not famous for its cuisine.
So, we're looking for an industrial sewing operation with a Korean connection.
They were so afraid of the authorities that they buried the child themselves?
I'm afraid I have to agree, she got everybody back here to save my job.
Seriously? Because I'm a pathologist and she's a forensic anthropologist? Fresh dead, long-time dead?
Well, I think we should thank Dr Brennan for insisting that the Jeffersonian reform a forensic unit on the premises.
I would like to say thanks personally, to all of you for dropping everything you were doing...
You are all my true friends; and I won't forget it. But, let there be no mistake, I am the boss and I am in charge.
Oh! That's really gonna get in the way!
I'm going for drinks.
No problem going easy on the fried food after this one.
Not a sport.
Neither is, uh, ribbon twirling, bridge, or synchronized swimming.
Oh god. I'm in the middle of something, aren't I?
Oh look! Dead guy.
Male. No sign of clothing. All other stats still unknown. He was found at the bottom of this grease receptacle by those lovely gentlemen over there.
I don't know. I told Booth.
Oh god. In the middle, again.
The t*nk hasn't been emptied in a couple weeks.
Daily addition of hot oil hastened decomposition and led to early hydration of body fat.
Can we get the body out of here, please?
Okay, careful.
Oh my.
Those injuries didn't k*ll him. There's grease in all levels of the bronchi, which means our v*ctim was alive when he was tossed into the vat. Cause of death is drowning in cooking. Or, vice versa.
Also, carboxyhemoglobin test shows our v*ctim had a 17% carbon monoxide level - triple the norm and double what even the heaviest people would have.
- Constant pressure on his collarbone.
Please tell me these all crawled into the dumpster after the oil was removed from the restaurant.
So easy to diet around here.
You're talking really fast. Are you late for something?
No, that's okay. Do you know where the cricket and the grass came from?
Great. So, Asia's out.
Great.
Oh. Have you Fisher?
That's not necessary. I'm sure he'll turn up.
Hey. Are you out of breath, Mr. Fisher?
Was the same w*apon used on the v*ctim's skull?
Any guesses to what it could be?
Very good, Mr. Fisher.
Multitasker? What would be splitting your focus?
Right. Did Hodgins come back with you 'cause I haven't seen him.
How many times have you watched this?
And?
The only thing you see on this tape is the game playing. No hands, no audio, just the screen.
Can I see the last part?
Wait, can you play that again?
The injuries the monkey suffers are the same as the v*ctim's.
No. Like the guy said, it seems to have come from a number of people and it's been totally degraded by a liquid.
Mostly cola.
Also, no sign of crickets, grass seed, or peacock feathers.
Yes.
Shall I get an ALS?
Oh!
Are you all right?
The joystick isn't long enough to pass through the abdominal wall and the intestines.
So far, they just bend.
So, the pelvic injuries couldn't have been caused by the piping we found in Billy's workshop.
I'm gonna flee right now.
Angela says no.
The m*rder w*apon was dipped in Indian Blue Peacock excrement?
Let's see which one of our suspects golfs at Annapolis Valley.
And you were told to do this without eating?
That's sad.
Maybe later.
Would you like a ride to the airport?
Sure.
I'm sorry they canceled your flight.
Neither am I. I was just trying to be polite.
Mmmm.
Earth-shattering sex and breakfast? I can die a happy woman.
Sorry I'm late. What did I miss?
Whoa! Sorry?
Oh. "Off." Of...of course. Yes, he's off and gone. All gone.
Anytime. Either Maine or Jamaica. You can't really go wrong.
I should---Bye.
Not why you're here, Dr. Sweets.
Yeah, great. Well, some part of this little devil made me sleep with Angela's ex.
Shh! A little discretion, please?
It just happened. I...His flight was canceled, I was parked at the airport hotel, he checked in and I...figured I'd see what all the fuss was about.
Yes. Well-deserved fuss.
You're here as a shrink Dr. Sweets. Not as a guest on Loveline.
Should I tell Angela? I mean, we're friends, and I don't want her to find out some other way cause then it'll seem like I'm hiding it.
Yes. Good. Keep going.
Almost.
Well, there aren't as many flights to Fiji as you'd think.
Oh, yes. I'm seeing him again tonight.
Neither did I.
Dr. Sweets.
Yes. You're good. But he's leaving soon, so I could say nothing and hope it all goes away.
Right. Of course. Thank you.
Just once.
I'll tell Hodgins and Clark.
Was there enough tissue for a tox screen?
Yeah, hard to believe. Well, we'll talk soon.
Tox screen showed he had quite a night with his friends Mr. Scotch and Mr. Merlot. bl*od alcohol level was 0.18. No drugs, recreational or otherwise. And no evidence of nicotine.
Put there to justify the expl*si*n, I would imagine. What have you found Mr. Edison?
Meaning?
A sculler is someone who crews on a rowing team.
I concur. I'll send your findings to Dr. Brennan.
What are you working on Angela ANGELA:Uh, blowing up all the photos of the remains for Clark and Hodgins. Trying not to lost quality.
Excellent. Oh, one other thing. I slept with your husband. Ex-husband.
Don't leave, Mr. Edison. I need a witness.
Are you one of us or not?
Well, you'll do anyway. I just...Angela, I slept with him, and I feel really weird about it.
Grayson's flight was cancelled and one thing led to another. He's very attractive, so...we spent the night together. I'm sorry.
Really?
Well, yeah.
Angela, I...You are an amazing person.
I slept with Grayson and Angela's okay with it.
And he'll be gone in a day.
Is that something for me?
The Henley Royal Regatta takes place there---rowing.
I really have to thank you. That was excellent advice.
Good. Then I can tell you it was touch to take you seriously at first. I mean, you don't even look old enough to drive, so I thought, "How could you possibly have any valid insights?"
I know, but doctorates don't teach you about sexual matters. And being so young, I---
I'm just---
I'm just very grateful to you, Dr. Sweets. That's all. Dr. Hodgins, Scotland Yard was interested in those other particulates you'd found that did not indicate Henley.
Okay. And, Angela, I was wondering when you might finish enhancing those photos. Clark needs 'em.
We found something. You busy?
Which would have pierced the lung and heart.
For insubordination SWEETS: Oh, I was kind of hoping that you all came of your own volition with an eye toward ameliorating a tense situation.
I'm your boss.
This all would have been a lot easier if I'd kept my mouth shut.
I apologize for...sleeping with people.
That's some kind of code for you, isn't it?
What's this?
Yes, he does.
Seeley. I can get you Gemma's file but you know the definition of insanity is to do the same thing over and over again, expecting a different outcome.
How's about you get another point of view.
There's a Forensic Anthropologist, at the Jeffersonian; I read that she solved how a stone aged hunter was m*rder.
If she can solve a 4,000 year old homicide, maybe she can help on Gemma Arrington. I could release the remains to her.
Same activity. Same results. Speaking of which, you look like you've been up all night.
Meaning, you won?
Transcripts, interviews, phone logs, time lines..
What did you tell them about it?
Ah, the gambler in you checking out the players
Oh, don't thank me, Seeley. Nobody wants this case anymore.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm gonna take that as an acceptance of my apology.
Wait - hey, you're Dr. Brennan, right? We met at a conference on decapitation.
Never mind.
You fired the Jeffersonian Institution?
They got the judge.
What'd I tell ya.
Here's the evidence.
LOok at the evidence.
Uh, small trace of bl*od - any DNA would be enough to make an arrest.
This is everything we found in the dumpster. The head and hands.
A couple of dumpster divers.
It's the v*ctim's hair.
The teeth have been shattered most likely in an effort to obfuscate identity.
Anything I should know, Seeley?
You think the rest of him is in here?
There is something unusual about the phalanges, Dr. Brennan.
You do?
You think he's military?
Dr. Brennan.
Is this a good time to interrupt?
Good, I wanna introduce you to someone.
Before I tell you his name, I want you to understand that he is in fact very well educated with several advanced degrees.
Because he's the Science Dude. Professor Bunsen Jude, the Science Dude.
Uh, he's got his own kid's science show on TV, about science. The Science Dude.
The professor has a proposition for you.
Dr. Brennan, this would be very good for the Jeffersonian.
Oh, millions and millions.
I'm sorry Professor.
Dr. Brennan, you could use a second pair of eyes. We happen to be squintern free.
Oh god! You mean it's...
A beard. That's better than...
Wow, mean looking.
One little detail. This hair, not from his head. It's his beard.
Okay. Well let's get this to Booth. See if anyone's missing this guy.
Headless, handless, right stage of decomposition, I'd say you found the rest of our v*ctim.
These are most likely the remains of a bounty hunter named Ray Kaminsky.
Was?
Decomposed due to autolysis, the destruction of cells as a result of an aseptic chemical process.
I'd like to know how this person died.
Just like that?
The trajectory is a straight sh*t to the heart. Fatal.
What've we got?
Professor Jude turned out to be quite impressive, didn't he?
A kind mind is a fine mind. It's just that stuff gets into your head and... go Angela.
So he wasn't k*ll by a b*llet but by a piece of his own rib?
What did the rib damage?
Bring merriment to your experiment. I just... made that one up myself.
Nothing. You found nothing?
But nothing knocked out one small fragment?
Which translates to?
Oh, good lord.
Is this in any way safe?
I see your results are congruent with what happened but are we really saying that our v*ctim was k*ll by a potato g*n?
That would be correct.
It takes a steady flow of dry air over a long period of time to achieve this kind of desiccated mummification.
She?
Now listen, boys. The Jeffersonian Halloween party, it's compulsory. Donors, patrons, angels, benefactors. So we all show up in costume and do our duty.
I don't want any argument on this.
What about Angela and Brennan?
Help me remove these.
Cedar oil?
What about this clear coating over the skin?
She was painted to death?
How could you possibly know that?
Hodgins?
Free Church of America Thrift Store, huh? Tell Booth.
I really need you to come back.
I got a couple here, says they think the mummy in the maze is their daughter.
Their daughter only disappeared last week.
Look, I'm great with corpses, but when it comes to loved ones, let's just say there's a reason why I'm not a pediatrician. So if you got a siren, turn it on.
We got an ID on our maze v*ctim off of Angela's sketch.
I think you want to hear this now. Name's Stella Higgins, fifteen years old, disappeared a year ago today.
Stella was last seen at Shoreline Amusement Park.
Okay, the first thing Booth needs to know is if this is Megan Shaw.
I agree. It would be impossible to mummify a body like this in just a little more than a week.
Lacquer and cedar oil. Looks like the same m*rder.
I said looks like, Zack. Looks like is not leaping.
You've seen something like this before?
This person was buried alive?
It looks like this person was buried alive, correct?
How long ago?
From?
There are small puncture marks, hundreds of them, all over her body. Like insect bites, but larger.
Are you ready to admit that it looks like both these girls were k*ll and mummified by the same person?
There's nothing in the bio about Judith Evans being a baseball player.
I am not liking the picture that's forming inside my head. Phalanges cracked, and her fingernails shredded, her head forced that way, her knees jammed up against her chest. Do we think Judith Evans was buried alive?
Poisonous spiders?
She's bitten all over. There had to be dozens of tarantulas on her so, yeah, there's a correlation.
Which adds up to?
Well, Stella's tox results show chloroform, ephedrine, theophylline, clonydine and methamphetamine.
Judith's remains show trace evidences of the same compounds, but in different concentrations.
Spiders, live burial, drug-induced panic... is our m*rder literally scaring girls to death?
The lacquer holds tarantula hairs, your mystery spores and particulates, which suggests heavy traffic.
I'm thinking aloud. It's a technique.
He's aware of the parameters.
Uh, yeah.
Thank you. I'm Catwoman.
... the superhero.
One of the most powerful female superhero figures.
Are you kidding? Catwoman?
I have nine lives.
I think I'm pretty fast.
Hawaii?
Let me guess, they all paid cash?
Hodgins! Hodgins has been isolating locations where the dead girls could have been exposed to the metal particulates he found in the lacquer.
One hundred and twenty-six, not including Hawaii.
Not Hawaii.
Okay, we're out of here.
Let's go, Cher.
Aloha Floral Supply between Friendship Heights and Bethesda.
I'm betting Colombian drug types, they just love blowing people up.
I brought you in to confirm the identity of his wife. She's the extra crispy one.
No, all of these remains are fully intact.
Uh huh BRENNAN: Not all of them.
Who was checked in there?
Neither does the vagina.
She was thrown into that chandelier above the fire. The deep tissue remained intact.
The hair sample makes her a bleach-bottle blonde.
She might not have had a choice.
The cartels force people to do what they want. Your waitress refuses, the cartel wipes out her family.
Send it over to Booth. If drugs are involved, maybe she has a record.
Listen, people, please. Don't be sending stuff without informing me first.
But not without first- just run everything by me first, ok? Every circus needs a ringmaster. In this circus, it's me.
Everything.
I think there's a tendency here for each of us to work too independently.
Zack, when I said everything, I meant just the case.
Yep, never heard of her.
Isn't she the rabbit woman?
Oh, good. I'll let Booth know you ID'd the v*ctim.
I think I'm up to speed for now, but thanks.
You'll tell who what? There's a loop people, and I'm in it. Not only am I in it, I'm the big curvy part.
Musculature of the neck preserved the trachea, a swab shows no trace of carbon.
I found semen.
The usual place.
Well, the sex may not have been consensual.
Too much tissue damage for me. Now it's time for the boneyard. You, Zack. Do your thing.
How do you do that?
Paint, turpentine and liquor blew down a wall, torched four people and deposited a corpse in a chandelier 12 feet off the ground.
Excuse me?
I hear that.
Are you all right? Can you breathe?
Without knowing there would be a huge expl*si*n. That's good guys, nice job.
Booth, it's Cam. We know how Lisa Winokur died.
Hodgins found b*rned fibers, he's analyzing them now.
A typical injury of a v*ctim on the ground straining against someone strangling her from behind.
Us sleeping together?
There's no one around, and you brought it up.
I'll do my best.
Well, a waitress that's having sex with a Colombian princeling-I mean, you don't buy expensive jewelry for a one-night stand.
Well, exactly.
Ok.
All right, great.
Zackaroni, almost every bone in her body was broken.
Do you draw a conclusion from that?
Wait, wait. That's our only option? Hope that a foreign government will lay charges based on a forensics-heavy investigation done by American law enforcement on another continent?
No, when I said everything, I might have been a bit too-you tend to bevery literal.
What?
Brennan!
T3 and T4 are behind the lungs. This is why we have to communicate more because-
I found evidence of a perforation in the membrane of her lungs.
Exactly what I thought. Could it have been pierced by a rib during the attack?
No, this is definitely a puncture.
A kn*fe?
To reach the lung from the back means moving through the epidermis, dermis, hypodermis, subcutaneous fat and three layers of thoracic muscle fiber and connective tissue. Not to mention splitting those vertebrae.
A sharp implement.
Unless we can find a way to make Judge Ramos waive her diplomatic immunity.
Go grab a cup of coffee. I'll figure it out .
Ok, we all got together-well, Zack wouldn't help until I threatened him. But the rest of us... The blowback patterns shows that Lisa Winokur's k*ll was six feet tall. Antonio Ramos is six feet tall. Lisa Winokur had sex immediately before her demise, DNA tests show it was with Antonio Ramos. Lisa Winokur was strangled with a silk ligature, Antonio Ramos favours silk ties.
Because of his broken arm, Antonio Ramos was forced to place his foot on Lisa Winokur's back, damaging her vertebrae.
It's a bluff. Cops do it all the time.
What mother wouldn't?
It's no different than lying to a criminal to get a confession.
He did what?
Seeley, you hate diplomatic immunity.
What are you talking about?
Ok .
Did he completely freak out?
You have a son?
Uh, not enough flesh.
Body parts in park, mystery needs solving.
The Jefferson Memorial is eight miles from where Parker found the finger.
Don't ask.
He?
Time of death... approximately four days ago. Lividity indicates that he died somewhere else and was then dumped. Deep puncture wounds to the trachea pierced the jugular. He bled to death.
First we look for particulates.
Any objections to Dr. Elliot?
He's middle-aged and he's held every possible job.
Dr. Brennan, Hodgins found saliva.
On the v*ctim.
Dr. Hodgins was looking for particulates on the mandible and vertebrate that might lead to a m*rder w*apon when he found saliva.
Booth, meet Mr. Starret.
Seth Elliot was k*ll by a dog with filed teeth.
An irregularity in the wound track.
Who's Schatzi?
Very intimidating.
So Schatzi's not our k*ll.
Hey, Hodgins.
Well, I hope you find something, 'cause this puppy's innocent.
It's a vet's vehicle-could be from one of his patients.
That does make more sense.
That's not an animal drug. That's a macrolide antibiotic used for a number of conditions.
Maybe we got lucky and the bad guy dropped his prescription.
I'm here, what's up?
What have you got?
From the v*ctim's car?
Ah HODGINS: Yeah, I don't know what that means either.
So, you called me over here to... HODGINS: Make Sweets go away.
Not an appropriate use of your boss, Dr. Hodgins.
The judge said no. Glady's ball wasn't enough for a warrant.
Because over two million of them were sold last year.
We need evidence that the Timmons' place was used for dogfighting.
That doesn't link us with dogfighting, either.
If this Astroturf cleaning stuff was delivered to the Timmons' place, that should get us a warrant.
This is exactly where the microchip would be embedded.
If it's his microchip.
One of those guys.
I think I'll be happier downstairs with the dead stuff.
Better than upstairs?
Well this guy must've been dead for a long time.
Really?
Who's been focusing on m*rder lately.
I'm thinking cause of death might have something to do with bl*od loss.
The place for this guy's flesh is on his bones, not in the buggy bellies of thousands of maggots.
Oh, you have a thing for hoarders, do you?
Hacked to death--that would explain all the bl*od.
It always seems that way.
Whoa! Hearing loss, Miss Wick!
Wow, that did not sound sincere.
Whoa! Daisy, you have to stop making that noise. Hacking suggests a crime of passion. Any blade marks on the other bones? Dr. Brennan?
Perhaps we could return from the Maluku Islands and focus on the m*rder?
Starved to death?
But his place was full of food. Not good food, but basic sustenance.
After being hacked?
So after he was attacked he was somehow immobilized?
Oh, that's horrible.
What news?
You understand what she's saying?
It doesn't look different.
You're getting warmer. Warmer. To the left. Okay, there.
To find out what poisoned them?
So, an atomic b*mb?
An atomic gnome?
We have our motive. Now we just have to find the person who collects radioactive Hobbits.
Please don't explain.
You been here all night?
Yes.
You find anything new?
What would do that?
So he walked into a plane?
Are you really leaving the Jeffersonian?
No, Dr. Brennan. You can provide me with a list of forensic anthropologists.
I've really enjoyed working for you, Dr. Brennan.
We both know better.
Oh, my God.
We're over here. And you might want to tuck your pants into your socks. The flies get into everywhere.
What, no cartoon characters on the socks?
Three weeks decomp, give or take.
No forced entry. The v*ctim is probably the man of the house, Terrance Bancroft. His wife Clarissa identified the watch and wedding ring.
Yeah, it's pretty gross.
The Bancroft family asked for us specifically.
The Bancroft Wing at the Jeffersonian? Sixty million bucks will buy a lot of goodwill.
Multiple stab wounds. We need photos of these splatter patterns.
You're in therapy?
The v*ctim's wife is in the kitchen.
His heart was perforated, but there's no bl*od in the thoracic cavity.
His jugular was punctured. Multiple stabs are congruent with k*ll jacked on crystal meth. Or ... just plain adrenalin.
No sign of forced entry. He probably knew his attackers.
Are you alright?
Not odd. If you were decomposing for three weeks, you'd probably work up a fungus or two as well.
Spell it out, bone boy.
He was lying on his back for several hours.
Yes. The v*ctim was k*ll by the puncturing of his jugular, left lying there for several hours, and then the m*rder came back... ZACK: ...forced the body into its chair... CAM: ... and stabbed him fourteen more times.
The bl*od on Julio's sweatshirt found in the locker was definitely Bancroft's.
Bancroft confiscates the kid's dope, kid runs to the supplier, they go to Bancroft's place, scare him into telling them where the dope is, then k*ll him.
'Cause he was there? 'Cause he cried, 'cause he blew his nose on a red hankie. They don't need much reason.
Doesn't mean it isn't true.
Does that give us a postmortem interval?
Then how did Bancroft's bl*od get on Julio's sweatshirt?
Is there something going on?
Then we have our m*rder.
There are some things she can't know.
Obviously you're off the case.
Mr. Bancroft died when a sharp instrument was thrust into his jugular.
Postmortem the vicious attack on the v*ctim continued.
In doing so, the m*rder inadvertently stabbed through his own jacket, thus depositing muskrat hair in the v*ctim's throat.
The v*ctim was k*ll and left for between ten and fifteen hours. The m*rder returned, and forced him into the chair. This is also when he was stabbed fourteen times.
Liquid chromatograph mass spectrometry.
No. It was done by a specialist at the Jeffersonian.
Dr. Jack Hodgins.
Yes.
Hodgins was all over this case. We need something brand new. Or something that Hodgins didn't touch.
What fungus?
Not this time.
Dr. Hodgins endangered a case by hiding his relationship with a suspect.
I appreciate it.
The fungus in the v*ctim matches exactly the strain Dr. Lonsdale found in the defendant.
... thus introducing the bacteria directly into the v*ctim's bloodstream.
The only people lawyers like are other lawyers.
Your father was the best candidate.
He's also an excellent science teacher. I called the school where he taught...
And after fifteen years, they still remember him. They named their lab after your dad! I thought you'd be pleased.
Yes.
I can still make out the accelerant pour pattern. v*ctim must have been doused post-mortem. I'll have HODGINS run it through the mass spec.
She wants me to fire him.
Booth's k*ll more people than Max has, and he works here.
In fact, Dr. Brennan, you've also k*ll a person. And, I'll point out, Max was never convicted. So, in the eyes of the law, he's never k*ll anyone.
Why aren't you?
Come o-he's showing kids around the museum. What can it hurt?
Nothing definitive on cause of death. Of course, We don't have a lot to work with.
Not even 30 years old.
Dr. Saroyan?...Eeexcellent. I'll check my e-mail.
It's your lucky day, Booth.
We ran the v*ctim's bone marrow? We got a hit on the Armed Forces DNA Registry.
Here's your guy. Calvin Warren.
They don't know. Warren was honorably discharged three years ago. Marines tried to track him down, see if he wanted to re-up, even checked his credit cards and bank accounts but he's totally off the grid.
No way these bones were b*rned in an ordinary wood fire.
These weren't cremated. The bones would be drier and the flesh would be completely gone.
That's a thousand-degree range.
How are you gonna do that?
You'll recall I mostly disapproved of your experiments with Dr. Addy.
You have me there, Dr. Hodgins.
FBI got a hit off the controlled substances database? I just got off the phone with Booth. Cal Warren had a prescription for Oxycodone, written by a Dr. Antonia Ezralow, office in Chevy Chase.
DR. EZRALOW has never heard of Calvin Warren. Plus, she's a dermatologist. Very rarely writes prescriptions for pain medication.
Too bad he's blocking his address.
"3-2-9-4." So he's across the street from 3294, but what street?
Check out the lamppost.
For an artist, you make a pretty good detective.
Booth found this in tall, dark and handsome's drawer.
And that would be...?
Any way to figure out what door it opens?
Let's just say I planted the seed.
What? CIA? NSA?
Yes, and I'm afraid I'm immovable on the subject.
Yes, plus I check those e-mails to see if they've been opened.
Thank you.
I hope you're not trying to get some free lotion.
Have we changed the subject?
Which is tetra ethyl lead?
Does the flying dermatologist drive a vintage car?
Aviation gas?
I'll let Booth know. Hopefully, she hasn't flown the coop while you were getting to the point.
Good job, excellent experiment.
Yes?
I'm gonna need more than that.
What else could it be?
Drink bottled beer?
You found a tapeworm? I mean, metaphorically?
Aviation gas.
Richard King's car runs on avgas?
And what is this anomaly?
Citric acid?
I look forward to seeing him explain that to a jury. BOOTH: , it's CAM. I think you're gonna wanna get yourself a warrant to arrest Richard King.
Maybe this will help BOOTH keep Richard King in detention.
What would do that?
Richard King's a big strong guy, I don't see him dragging a dead body around on a choke chain.
What's that, some satanic hoo-ha?
What's that mean?
Hello? New team member in the room.
You saved his life. Ironic.
Why don't you just ask him?
You'll be there to protect her.
Better not take Doctor Brennan.
You want to expose a piece of crucial evidence to ammonia gas? No.
The second you expose this bone, it's useless. Epps wants you to destroy evidence.
Why would he plant evidence at all?
Fine. You can perform the experiment. So, glasses.
What is that?
Epps is telling us that the second v*ctim's in a mine? What kind of mine?
This is where the hamate bone was taken.
Extensive contusions around the ankles.
I agree. And while she was still alive, too. Is that part of Epps's M.O.?
So his accomplice threw in some flair of his own.
Last week, his accomplice k*ll another girl and swapped wrist bones with the girl Epps buried nine years ago.
Inmates are allowed phone calls, visitors, letters ... but those are all monitored.
Look at this. It's a burn. Cigarette, probably. And, there's this. It was jammed in her shoe.
Why?
But she'll talk to a woman?
Fine. I'll do it.
You don't wanna send Brennan?
Angela's an artist, an expert in 3-D reconstruction.
What?
Fine. I'll go tell her what she's just volunteered for.
Oh Mr. Nigel-Murray, we've so missed your insights.
Why weren't the remains dispersed by scavengers?
I did not expect him to know that.
By all means, give it a sh*t.
Naked wrapped in a sheet, Sweets will have to say something about that Hodgins: Also I found soil dwelling Mite Genus Arrenurus, the nearest place they could have picked soil mites was hundreds of miles away. And decomposed popcorn.
They were k*ll at the movies?
Is it more impressive that they can do that joined at the hip, or less?
did you see the video? They were juggling machetes Hodgins: I found particulates of magnesium carbon on both girls. Do you have any fascinating trivia on that subject?
How long will it take you to analyze it?
It's not typed, it's handwritten.
Please don't encourage him.
Is there only one bed there?
Dr. Brennan? If you do have to perform any chance you can set up a webcam so we could watch? You know to see if we might be of any help with the case I mean.
Like their heads were cracked together?
Yes but is it pertinent?
So heads knocked together is the cause of death?
I'll let you pass that nugget on to dr. Brennan when you tell her about the fractures
were they attacked by a pitbull?
See how this works Mr. Nigel-Murray. A kind of mental winnow proces.
Excellent mental winnow Angela: Okay, scenario number two; a fall.
Why not?
There'd be evidence on the soft tissue of the face.
I'll call Booth and dr. Brennan.
plus she only has to be half as scared
Is it me or does she seem a little to in to this?
We get it Sweets: Dr. Brennan is showing remarkable trust and willingness Booth is nervously pacing around.
I think we could move this along a bit faster Mr. Nigel-Murray.
They're on their way.
I was afraid you'd start talking about Wilhelm Conrad Rontgen, and the discovery of the X-ray.
Booth was undeniably good.
Can I ask about the eye?
Burn marks were found on the v*ctim that were consistent with injuries one would sustain from a 3 million volt stun g*n.
We didn't know that at the time, Your Honor. We obtained a legal warrant to search the locker.
Ages of the v*ctim?
Go, Dr. Hodgins. Look at the soil again. You may find something.
And injuries to the greater cornu and the left lateral thyroid and cricoid cartilages. I see injuries like this in v*ctim who've been strangled.
Taffet tasered all her v*ctim - three million volts - that should be enough to knock out a 10 year old boy for at least a few hours.
I'll take samples from under his fingernails. Maybe he scratched her during the struggle.
Hey. Sorry to bother you. Do you have a minute?
I don't know, actually. It's why I'm here. I'm - I'm worried, Dr. Sweets. I - I - this case is taking its toll on everyone.
Including me. Yes.
I feel like everything's fraying around the edges. We're all searching for some piece of evidence that can put Taffet away but we keep coming up empty. Everyone feels manipulated by her and I-I should be able to pull everyone together - keep them on track..
But did we really believe that? We all knew she was guilty, so someplace we assume that, in a just world, she'd pay for what she did.
These...are my people she hurt. My friends. I should...be able to do something.
You did it, Angela. It's Taffet.
A dust mite?
If the boy bit Taffet, the skin cells are probably hers. Whatever's left is gonna be small, but there might be enough to give us DNA.
The dust mite contained human female epithelial cells. We extracted those cells and ran them through several DNA databases. The cells belonged to Heather Taffet.
Since there were so few cells in the mite, the testing destroyed the sample, but the procedures and results are all contained in our documentation.
Ohh...
To Booth.
Congratulations!
It took ten minutes to hike down to the foot of the cliff to find the body. Local fauna include a wide variety of birds, rodents and crabs- all of which have had a go at the remains.
What fascinates me is that we've ruled out death by bungee and yet you remain fascinated.
Heavy grinder. High stress job?
This body's been dead more than five days, the tissue shows a much higher rate of decomp.
Ohh, God, that's strange.
I guess we should see what's inside.
I have no idea. Everyone, away from the body! We're in lockdown.
No idea at all. But we could be dealing with a poison, a virus, or a biotoxin. So no one touches or... sniffs it or anything else until we've run tests.
Patience, Dr. Brennan. Curiosity k*ll the cat.
I know. I would just like us all to stay alive during the process.
Perhaps you should help Agent Booth question the v*ctim's brother. I'll call when you can have access to the remains.
Cause of death?
I can't get a definitive reading yet. I have organic matter, from the v*ctim and numerous creatures that took a piece from him. I'm running another test for viruses that could've been transmitted from the animals.
Where?
Originating from where?
Any relevance whatsoever?
So when you spout facts, it's your way of maintaing focus.
In that case, is it individual chopsticks or pairs?
Every serologic and biologic diagnostic I've run comes up the same- no drugs, viruses, poisons.
Okay. But we proceed with extreme caution.
What?
How much time do we have?
Tell me a little known fact.
Did you know that, Mr. Nigel-Murray?
We could lose our evidence long before we solve our m*rder.
Lust Dust?
Well, that's something I can tell Booth.
Oh, I see, so we're going with the old "blame the corpse" defense.
These remains were emitting hydrogen gas.
More evidence is gone?
Are you hearing this, Dr. Hodgins?
Yeah, let's give him a little space.
You think he's troubled by indigestion?
Makes sense... I hope.
What's happening?
Oh, God.
Are you serious?
Any good news?
Even though the v*ctim is still wearing his hard candy coating?
That's very small.
How can we confirm that?
Ah, we got something right. Now, how do we get him out?
A what?
The same day Alex Newcomb was k*ll.
So... the bl*od from Jungle Jim's is a match for Alex Newcomb. He was k*ll in the service area.
So... the k*ll thinks the body is going to dissolve instantly, like it does in the movies, then nothing happens except every alarm in the lab goes off time and again.
Yes. This is just really good wine.
What was Alex Newcomb doing back at Jungle Jim's that night?
The stab perforated the spine. What about injury to the vertebrae?
But we won't get anything from those vertebrae. They were already jelly when the X-rays were taken. I hate this case. Did you know that the earliest production of wine took place in 6,000 BC in what is now Iran?
Is there anything you don't know?
We have to find a way to unseal this body.
Can you see another choice?
The Brits used dental records - no jokes, please - to identify the daughter of a wealthy ex-pat.
X-rays for you, Clark.
I'll take the body, see if there's any soft tissue worth looking at.
Some kind of paper...
Okay, as usual, I'll need constant progress reports.
w*apon?
This is Birimbau?
He certainly is.
Yeah, but he is some kinda god. The best kind.
Yeah.
The fatty acid composition of the v*ctim's cervical fluid caught my attention, so I ran some more tests. Turns out Portia Frampton was pregnant.
About two months.
Thank you, Angela.
The k*ll k*ll, loads the body and his scooter.
Drives to the Thames-
How shiny and pretty. What is it?
Yes. Are you saying our v*ctim was attacked by an abalone?
Mad, mad, mad.
"Women" is an unacceptable generalization.
Am I interrupting anything?
Ooh, Booth shouldn't be behind the wheel. He isn't adaptable.
I don't think there's enough fetal tissue to get a DNA reading, but...
If I could speak again? I had better luck with the tumor. Our v*ctim suffered from Von-Hippel Lindau disease.
But it's hereditary, so her father must have it.
She was k*ll in Australia?
How does that help us?
And the organic material?
Fine, I'll just pass this along to Booth and Dr. Brennan in England. You guys go ahead and - Security cameras, people. The building's filled with security cameras.
Woo. That's a nasty one. Booth got a list of all the students who didn't make it to the capsule opening and he's pulling names of anyone connected to the school in 1987 who had a record.
Roger Dillon. Class of 1987.
Or you can call him, Roger.
Nerve gas?
I've seen it before. Someone twisted the v*ctim arm behind his back, forcefully.
So, he might have had some trouble at home.
It's on the list.
Check. Dehydrate and scan.
I remember getting grounded every weekend. So many rules to break, so little time.
What about Ken? I felt so sorry for him.
Bingo, baby. The disk is not on the list.
We need to pull the data Do you think you're up to it?
Check on the skate. Belonged to some jock named John Adamson.
Another check.
A watch is not on the list.
Could it help ID the poison?
Roger Dillon had a pocket watch full of cocaine?
And Roger needed money.
But when I checked the results against samples of his hair and bones they came out negative. Roger didn't do drugs.
What?
It's neurotoxic in high doses.
So our theory about poisoning is incorrect.
Which means Roger must have bled out. Have you determined a w*apon?
So, it wasn't a kn*fe.
An oil product?
Definitely not John Adamson's ice skate.
An asphalt shovel?
Gil Bates worked paving driveways.
Check this out. Good luck on the I.D. Too bad they didn't do it on the delicate cycle, huh?
Well, the heat in here would have sped up decomp. Look out, I'm going in.
Fabric softeners permeated the soft tissue. Everything's swollen. Speaking of social contracts, do you like your gynecologist?
Dr. Oxenburg moved to California and I am looking for a doctor for Michelle. She's at that age, ya know?
I'm always touching a dead body, Seeley. If I let that be a variant of conversation, I wouldn't-
Ooh. This is not an eyeball.
I'll put it this way, our v*ctim was male.
Is there a testicle up here?
Just the one that scared Booth. I've cataloged the loose tissue and all the v*ctim organs and glands are accounted for but the other testicle seems to have vanished.
So the guy with one gonad actually had balls.
Well, if you'll excuse me, I've got an appointment.
You were board certified in '99?
And you did a fellowship at Vanderbilt in -
You were recommended by Dr. Oxenburg but I wanted to make sure this is the right fit.
Do you consider yourself easy to talk to? Especially about delicate topics - like, someone's first time having sex.
No. No. Their first time. Like in losing virginity.
Trauma? Oh, my god. Why would you bring up trauma.
There's been a misunderstanding here. I'm looking for a gynecologist for my daughter, who's 16.
Excellent. Well, obviously, you're respectful and highly qualified. I think this will work.
Thank you. Acutally, I uh, don't have a husband. Michelle's my adoptive daughter.
So, thank you, Dr. Lidner.
Paul.
You have something for me?
I don't think they're gonna help with the I.D.
The missing testicle.
It's a prosthetic one. They're made of a silicone shell and filled with saline. Now, obviously, this has suffered a lot of damage in the wash, but if we can get a serial number off this? We can get an I.D.
Well, the serial numbers were pretty warn from the washing machine.
Does that prosthetic seem overly large to you?
Guess it's been a while.
I'll get it to Booth.
Honestly, I think you'll like Dr. Lidner and you should have someone else to talk to..especially if there's anything - anything you prefer I didn't know about.
I know and I believe you but you're growing up and your body - it's a woman's body now, not a child's and you should treat it like a woman and I'm gonna stop talking now.
I know, it just means your growing up, for real.
What? No...yeah, kinda but I will, we will, right? I mean, you don't know how to handle me, either. Do you? Because that would be embarrassing.
Because you and Perry aren't having sex, right? Okay, okay. Fry?
Hey, how did it go?
I just wanted to make sure you were comfortable.
Good. That's excellent.
Sure. Be back in a minute.
Is there a problem with Michelle?
And she spoke to you..about things.
Right. Insurance.
Now I'm stumped.
Ye-Yes, that-that, um...would be weird.
Yeah, right? It-it is weird.
But, um, I would say yes.
Does that mean you're asking? Oh. I'm sorry. Excuse me. Work. I've got to go.
What?
I would like that.
Erik Dalton's hotel room's a good bet for the m*rder scene. We found two sets of DNA.
Yes. The first set of DNA belonged to our v*ctim.
I found traces of Klonopin in the mystery bl*od, which means, whoever it belongs to either has a panic disorder or epilepsy.
I do. I'm glad. It's been a long time since he's dated anyone.
But you're seeing Hacker.
All organisms evolve and develop along patterns only recognized in retrospect. Your life doesn't exist outside the laws of nature.
I never thought I'd be dating now; yet I am.
I think so. We're going to have lunch.
And thanks for pointing that out.
Go. I'll call you if I get a hit on the Klonopin.
And then after a perfectly nice evening, I could tell he didn't even want to shake my hand. He looked positively pained.
Mm-hmm.
No.
Except other accountants or underwriters.
So, do we share any other great deceptions?
Ooh. I hate magic. I'm sorry.
Am I smiling like a fool? 'Cause that would be embarrassing.
Then I'll keep smiling.
And I have a m*rder to solve.
Um, what do you say we catch a movie on the weekend?
I'll see what my parental duties are and give you a call?
No prints other than those of the dealer.
Take it apart. See if he missed anything.
Will you excuse me?
Was there anything wrong with your tests?
Oh. That. Yes. I was going to tell you...
It wasn't my fault. It just happened.
I'd ground you. I'm...sorry. We had lunch. We liked each other. That's all. And that was wrong. Very, very wrong.
No. He's a good doctor, that's all.
Yes. No. God.
No. Wait. How did we switch roles here?
We just had lunch. I swear. I will never see him again. I promise.
What?
No, I... I didn't realize.
Excuse me?
Oh... all right. I'll go slow. Very, very slow.
Sure. Right away.
Okay.
Love you, too.
She's at security getting her ID and badge.
Dead for about 72 hours. No lividity on the legs.
Hmm. Looks like there's something in his throat. Looks like a photograph after the decomp and stomach acid got to it.
I'll call Angela.
He didn't have to. You did everything but hire a skywriter. Have you gotten anywhere with the picture we pulled from his throat?
What?
It's Eau de Formaldehyde, glad you like it.
Very good.
I'm with you there.
Try to find what caused it.
You might want to keep a little mystery about yourself.
Yeah. Brush abrasions. Can you hand me a swab?
Okay.
I always love your clinical assessments.
Excellent. If Booth can find the m*rder w*apon, we can match it.
You did this without my approval? And why shouldn't I toss you out of here right now?
Well, in fact there are. Produce section road rage is a long way from sh**ting a man dead.
Capitol Police Sergeant Francis Diamond.
I want to show you what I found lodged in Bill O'Roarke's lower intestine.
Guys like to think they're the only ones who should sleep with more than one person.
Oh, yeah, then you end up lying in bed holding them while they say, "I don't know what's wrong, this has never happened to me before."
And the botanist, no biological imperative?
Okay, look at that.
Not sure yet. And the tox screen's even stranger. Tetrahydrozoline hydrochloride.
And sildenafil citrate.
A tattoo?
So that could be Veronica in the picture.
What'd you get?
Don't think so. The wound's too jagged and I found amylase activity.
And I found candidiasis in the saliva.
You're getting warm. Look. Come on, you can do it. Distance between peaks is irregular and about two inches apart.
Oral thrush. Wiggle your tongue side to side.
Oh, yeah.
Putrescent gases forced the wire into the esophagus, and the buoyancy of the outhouse sewage caused it to migrate up the digestive tract to the intestine.
She's small. Do you think she could have upended a 180-pound man and placed him in a poop pit?
So it's probably not Holly. Anyone else have access to the equipment?
Animal foot... possibly a rabbit.
Frog.
What do you think, Zack?
Lovely.
And one platform wedge, made it all the way to the lower intestine.
Sully!
And you're still a G-man, what happened to that restaurant you were going to open? Or was it a petting zoo?
For the gator? We have these four 45 caliber slugs. For the girl, so far we've got the gator.
No drugs, but her alcohol was sky high; 0.11. Oh dear.
SPM reveals hidden hematomas and decomp tissue. See that shaded area here, it indicates bruising to her vaginal wall.
Or at the very least subjected to some extremely unpleasant college sex.
Without DNA it's the proverbial needle in a hay stack.
Excuse me?
Let's see it.
Because you're acting superior.
Don't be a horse's ass, she's your friend. That's all that matters. These ridge marks inside the wound look like the threads of a screw.
Well at the very least it concludes that Judy didn't stumble into the swamp and feed herself to Eugene.
Okay.
And the hits keep coming; seems Judy Dowd was r*ped and m*rder.
Now that we know it's a m*rder, I'm feeling a lot less charitable.
The gold flakes are definitely from the liquor we found in her system.
Check out the caption. All the girls love Monte's gold.
Michelle's been asking for months if we could get a kitten. I'm thinking 'no'.
Can you pass me the forceps? I think I see something. It appears to be steel wool I found at the exit wound.
Our results definitely points to a professional hit.
Don't people limp in every country?
Very good, Mr. Bray.
And for bonus points, any clue why his hand was chopped off?
And when they couldn't, they cut off his hand.
You are discussing lunch while holding a tray of cat excrements.
Looks like our Russian friend was a recent arrival.
Hey. Have you two seen Dr. Brennan?
It appears Mr. Bray has lost his scholarship. No scholarship means no internship in the Jeffersonian.
Apparently, the trust that fund his scholarship ran out of financing because of the economic mass.
He's one of us. Even Booth likes him.
I haven't told him yet. I wanna see if there are other funding options.
Great.
Nothing from here.
You believe James Bond k*ll our Russian?
I'll tell Booth to put out a search on the car
No g*n wounds.
And where is the briefcase?
To high school students. How about you, Mr Conspiracy Man? Doesn't your foundation give out grants?
What are you doing here?
There's no alcohol in toxscreen.
Looks like they were made with a drill press.
Wendell. Let me ask you, you mentioned the neighborhood that you grew up and I don't mean to pry, you said it was kinda poor?
No! Uh. I- was just asking because of your scholarship.
Miracle?
Really?
No. That- just answers about everything.
The strange is, I've found no contraction band necrosis in the myocardium in the heart.
Unless the CIA underestimated this guy. Anyone who can take that kind of abuse makes James Bond looks like a weeny.
I'm sorry, I have no idea where that came from.
Truma-confined in a limited space.
A blow to that region could cause a severe nerve damage.
And perhaps, the Assistant Director of the CIA.
I'll let Booth know.
Hey, have you seen Booth and Brennan?
No. The CIA is taking over the investigation and they're collecting both sets of remains in 10 minutes.
10 minutes. How are things going in here?
Well, do it fast.
Nine minutes left.
Okay, if he was left upside down long enough, congestion of the head and brain can lead to asphyxiation. Particular hemorrhaging would explain the bloodshot eyes.
Hold on a second.
That's nice, but you don't have to leave.
I was just notified that they found new funding for your scholarship. You are covered in full for the next 2 years. Apparently, a donation was made anonymously.
Actually, they received enough anonymous donations for 3 scholarships
Mmhmm, it really is.
Maybe he got bayoneted, and then the clay leeched out the calcium.
That could be relevant.
Why?
Whoa!
Spiders. I don't like spiders, and...
...there are thousands of little spiders coming out of...
Uh... I really don't like spiders.
Dr. Hodgins, I can...uh...still see one in his mouth.
Yeah, still with those gross spider faces and legs, though...
Any idea how to...uh...remove the body from the sediment?
Yeah, I'm just...itchy all over. I'm gonna go burn all of these clothes, and maybe my hair.
There's no faster way to clean the skeleton?
I wouldn't worry about praise, Mr. Nigel-Murray; strive for...mild approval.
Did you...clean the v*ctim's teeth?
If you want praise, I'd concentrate on the sternum if I were you; something hit him there. Hard. Let's see if we can't figure out what that was and, uh, whether it k*ll him.
So, the ex-boyfriend's off the hook.
Up until the "very far," yes. What did strike our v*ctim in the chest?
So, we don't have cause of death.
Uh...rhubarb...yeah...uh, the v*ctim was k*ll by rhubarb...?
All right, I'm usually pretty good with following your jumpy little brain, but you've totally left me in the dust on this one.
Rhubarb, it is.
I ran bl*od tests on the items in Dan's athletic bag. I found evidence of someone else's bl*od.
This was more than a trace, and it wasn't on his uniform; it was all over his towel. We ran it through CODIS and got a match. 32-year-old man named Cyd Zigler.
You can't blame Mr. Nigel-Murray; the nick was on the bone, but I should've realized the implications for the flesh, and I didn't.
Then why are you letting him worry that he's disappointing you?
How would he know that if you don't tell him?
Grace Bryson.
Motive, theoretical w*apon, spiders... That should be enough for an arrest.
The bottom of the paving stones are covered in bl*od. All the samples I've taken are a match for the v*ctim.
Please tell me it's a match.
A: These remains show no signs of being exploded, and B: ... I think you can guess B.
This is good; we're developing a short hand.
Dwarfism.
How long would that take?
So, we have time of death, if not cause.
Well, a car fell on the remains last night, that's gonna be a factor.
Most likely scenario is that he was m*rder, and tossed in a storm drain, service tunnel, or sewer.
Congruent with having being dragged?
Yeah, let's not do that. Start with the coins.
Worth a lot?
Are any of these coins traceable?
What about the g*n?
Let me know if you find something special.
Positive identification on the v*ctim. Bryce DaFonte.
There you go. Apparently Mr. DaFonte was somewhat violent before channeling his aggression more productively.
Indeed. Thanks. What are you doing?
Not caused by being crushed by two million pounds of gravel and asphalt?
Telling us that they pre-existed the green, very good. Okay, what else do these nicks tell us?
Keep looking, Mr. Nigel Murray.
Bless you.
Are you okay?
Given the degree of decomp he's been dead a couple of weeks.
Lividity's indeterminate.
Well, I've got some brain matter here, so he had to have a head at some point.
Well that's consistent with his musculature. The guy was built! He was probably an athlete. I bet he was hot.
I think he had a cold.
I found traces of tea and honey in his stomach and the remains of a throat lozenge.
Jock! I rest my case.
I'm deceived!
Shaved?
Must mean someone slit his throat.
What then?
Vic's tox report just came back. There were trace amounts of THC in his bloodstream.
No. Check out the monitor.
E. coli. And given the concentration in his bl*od, I'd say the infection occurred within hours of his death.
I'm getting there. The CDC tracks all E. coli outbreaks. And apparently the last E. coli ground zero was in Virginia at the Checker Box restaurant in Alexandria. The culprit? Tainted raw honey. The same kind I found in Tommy Sour's stomach.
No!
Thanks...
Yeah, he knew that. He just wanted to say 'cut the cheese'.
Slicing his throat and trachea...
As he lost consciousness, he fell forward...
Nothing in the data suggests that he fought back.
The crows and critters sure made quick work of him.
Even if they want to pass unnoticed amongst us?
Definitely.
su1c1de of the Chrysler Building. At least this one didn't hit the pavement.
What's weird?
That means he was ill.
Old?
Then that's the one we should go with.
Hodgins left too soon.
Do we do that?
Why do you know that?
Why did I ask? Anyway, there can't be all that many people who have accumulated ten months in space.
Call Booth. Tell him to see if anyone's missing an astronaut.
Yes.
Construct a three-dimensional hypothesis of what caused this damage to the clothing.
Well, that would explain the burst seams and pressure tears, but this seems to be...
Yeah. When Zack gets ahold of the bones maybe you two can figure out if something catastrophic happened to this man.
Yes. Go do your magic.
Are you certain you can't do what needs to be done with X-rays alone?
Why would the body burst vertically when all the forces are horizontal?
Not really.
I'm all right with it, Zack, if it's absolutely necessary. Even the boiling part, but perhaps you could at least acknowledge that this is a person?
Was someone's husband, Zack.
Fine. Do what you have to do.
Igor.
Nothing.
Excess levels of vitamins D, K, E, A, and C. Along with glutamine peptides and creatine monohydrate.
Leucine, isoleucine and valine. He foresaw going back into space.
Careful.
How could that not show up on X-rays?
Wait, so this coral, like from a reef?
Then this attachment would be...
Don't say that to Booth. But if that's the case then all the vitamins and amino acids he was loaded up with were mainly to ward off infection.
What's the point of this experiment?
By tossing it from a plane? Why not just have the visitors toss him into the sun?
No, it's not. Sometimes when people try to cover things up it goes wrong. That's all.
In Switzerland?
What happened?
The foil hat squad funds this guy? Booth is gonna love that.
Because he doesn't believe in coincidences.
He clearly wasn't wearing a seat belt.
I meant to warn you that Ms. Wick came up in the rotation.
We have access to bl*od and fluids. I'll run a tox screen.
And so inappropriate over a decomposing body.
Jaws of Life.
You really want to be the one to use that, don't you?
Of course not.
pointing to the other room) Right. You do know the point is to remove the human remains from inside the car with minimal disruption of the evidence?
Though, these tox results are suggesting su1c1de.
Mostly skin, some brain matter.
Clonazepam, lamotrigine, quetiapine, venlafaxine, hydrocodone, oxycodone and codeine.
He was under psychiatric care. Even spent a week in the psych ward last March.
Can't tell for sure. Long-time abusers build up a tolerance, so, this could have been a typical Wednesday night for the guy.
Carefully, Dr. Hodgins. Like removing a baby bird from an egg.
What's going on?
Injunction?
Well, it's... gorgeous. Where does this leave our investigation?
Don't scratch the crushed automobile, which encases a rotting, dead body?
Could you take a step back, please?
Oh, rats.
You dumped a bucket full of domestic beetles onto this work of art. They'll strip the flesh off our v*ctim in no time.
Au contraire Remind me of this moment around Christmas bonus time.
Thanks for mentioning that.
Nice. Now maybe you'll be able to rescue the princess.
Perhaps some therapy might help.
Dr. Brennan, Ms. Wick and I were just observing the handiwork of your beetles.
From what?
How long have we got?
Youth doesn't excuse everything, Ms. Wick. So, you're feeding the scans into the Angelator?
We're well aware of the time, we don't need a countdown.
Well, I programmed my phone to get the five-day forecast.
I can't believe you did that.
Well, it turns out that not all the bl*od on the floor of the gallery came from that performance with the pig. This is human.
Someone worked very hard to clean it up. It's making things difficult.
What'd you get off the ax?
What was the eccrine pH?
Yeah, but it's a good idea, Hodgins. You might want to prepare Angela.
Thank you so much for seeing me.
Ah. Annoying. That's exactly why I'm here. I...
I've done an unofficial, confidential survey of my people and...
And the word "vibe" is a little dated.
I'm not here about you being annoying. It's Daisy Wick.
Yes, she's very smart, very able, and she has a knack for turning reasonable people into flaming gas balls of fury.
No, no. I need your advice on how to tell Daisy we can't have her at the lab anymore. I'm very comfortable with incompetence, but when it's just a matter of personality...
What? Really?
Well, as the boss, it's kind of my job to fire people.
Well, I'm no psychologist, but I think you should be flattered that we all drop in on you and ask your advice.
The point is, you didn't miss it.
Presumably the m*rder sweat on the ax handle then perspired while rolling the v*ctim's body to the car.
Medicines. Treatments for cancer.
Then Roxie is not our m*rder.
No, but this drug here, busulfan, it causes highly visible skin discoloration.
What's that look?
How do you think he's going to do it?
We're wondering what his method will be.
That's a method of termination I've never tried. But bravo, Dr. Sweets.
Dr. Brennan! Would you care to hug?
Ok. I'm... good with that. Welcome home.
He hasn't been reinstated yet.
Sweets is examining Booth today, fingers crossed.
First drink since the brain operation?
I'm honored. An auspicious occasion. So what do you want?
Oh god. There's lasting brain damage isn't there? Something you haven't told anyone.
Are you hearing voices?
Seeley if you're hearing voices that's really quite serious.
The things that make you a good cop have nothing to do with the socks. What's really on your mind?
You're in love with Dr. Brennan.
A sweet, kick-ass, FBI m*rder with hard fists and a lion heart? Yeah, you're still him. My advice, for what it's worth: forget the bruised brain, and go with your lion heart.
Yes, except be sure about your feelings because if you crack that shell, and you change your mind, she'll die of loneliness before she'll ever trust anyone ever again.
So these people are all nuts.
So where did Fargood locate his new Atlantis?
I count 14 people in this video.
Is that Avalon?
How do you know?
Her sister ended up in a mass grave that she led us too. I'm not sure that adds up to pretty close.
Based on the Harbinger video, Avalon names, and Dr. Brennan's analysis, this is most likely Louis Lampcov.
The only v*ctim we know for certain that died violently.
That's the crystallized calcium oxalate you found in the soil.
Liver or kidneys.
Well, Glycolate's poisonous.
A poison that isn't a poison until it's metabolized?
Well unless some brilliant bug and slime womp finds it in the soil HODGINS: And that, ladies, that is why they call me "King of the Lab."
The early symptoms of ethylene glycol poisoning: fatigue, nausea, headache.
Dr. Brennan's going to want to confer with that Harbinger doctor.
Next time, make it look more like you're taking advantage of a situation not scripting it.
Yep. Perfect match.
A million to one.
So... a shovel hit the water main?
And they say Christmas only comes once a year.
And why was someone digging up the cemetery at 3 in the morning?
Move him to another location.
You aren't seriously asking me to be a part of this. Get your rendering over to Booth so they can show the priests. I am gonna go re-saturate the dried bl*od, see if it's of any value.
Do I have to throw cold water on you two?
Oh I know, just try to keep it off the internet, okay? So, I have bad news. We've all been exposed to coccidiodomycosis, a fungal infection from the graveyard dirt we've been breathing. Symptoms include nausea, weakness, fever...
... decreased libido...
We're all gonna get shots.
Thought so.
I don't get it.
So our grave robber comes to a nice quiet graveyard, next to a nice quiet church, whenever he's in need of some extra cash.
Just got off the phone with the CDC. The fungal infection that we were exposed to from the graveyard is rare enough that they'd have records of anyone who was infected. But I need your samples for the strain.
Probably defensive wounds received in the struggle.
Or it could be some chemical or medicine that compromised the tissue. I'll need samples to run some tox screens.
Then I'll assume he wasn't struck by a shovel.
One of our old skeletons was ID'd as a bishop. Bishop Jersik. Died 1889.
Let's find out if he was buried with something silver. A sceptre or a shepherd's crook or something else suitable for skull cracking.
Yes we do. McCourt was poisoned. An alkaloid called taxine.
Not at these concentrations.
Yes, Father, by something called taxine.
Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, increased salivation, stomach ache, diarrhoea, spasms and death.
We suspect the poison weakened him, made him unable to defend himself.
Say, an old man.
The good news is, we know how to make you feel a lot better.
I've been a coroner a long time. I've seen a lot of bad things...
m*rder, mayhem, catastrophe, su1c1de, explosions, you know, the usual stuff. But this? This gave me a chill.
Look, I just don't want to end up hovering above my bed with my head spinning around 360 degrees.
Right.
Oh, he's only half joking. This extension of cartilage here?
Not an angel, not a Jinn, and yet; not your run-of-the-mill man, either.
Well at least it wasn't brimstone, available only from Hell.
Only if they aren't made of bone.
What about the tail, do you think it's a cosmetic implant as well?
Well, that's extremely rare for a child to be born with one.
Is his last name Lucifer?
This section of the peritoneal lining is both thickened and enflamed, which indicated the intestines might have ruptured.
Hard to tell from sample size. Did you find any fractured bones in the X-rays that might have perforated the intestines?
Whoo! I know that smell. Yup. Gangrene. I've seen this before, in junkies. They inject between the toes, gets infected.
There's no way that ruptured the intestines.
Christmas roses, that doesn't sound very Satanic.
Hmm, of course it is.
Did you find cause of death?
Okay, so we've got a fracture to the forehead...
All delivered by an invisible heavenly lance.
So you do believe in the Devil.
No, you told me what your religion says.
Yes. That would be... good.
Anything on the nun chucks?
Can you rule them out as the m*rder w*apon?
With Arastoo...
Like what?
Arastoo says he looks at the Devil every day.
Or...you know what they call us right?
Muslims. Some Muslims, the ones over there trying to k*ll us.
Radiating micro-fractures plus a ruptured intestine?
He was slammed into something.
"The Devil lost?"
What if Arastoo means us?
I know but that doesn't mean that in his heart he doesn't look down on us. Do you want to work with someone who thinks you're the Great Satan?
Yes. But unfortunately dopey interpersonal crap falls under my job description.
You found something?
Excellent, what was happened?
What? No that's not... true.
I'm not familiar with that phrase. Could we get back to this?
Oh my God.
And that was the Devil?
You were defending your unit Mr. Vaziri.
You didn't lose your faith. You pray five times a day.
He was electrocuted?
It was the muscle spasms that caused his intestines to rupture. I should let Dr. Brennan know right away.
I did...think that - wonder if you considered us to be the Great Satan. I am familiar with that phrase.
Wow, you weren't kidding. If we twirl her around, we can pretend we're at a rave. What's the good word, Hodgins?
Are you okay?
All right.
Nice bracelet. Do you need the left hand?
Just how I like 'em.
The left hand was lodged under the body. A lack of exposure preserved some of the dermis. We might be able to get a print.
Can you pour fabric softener?
That's good. Do you think Hodgins is okay?
Well, they seem to be jumping each other like rabbits.
How sweet.
No, of course not. Beer too. Chips...salsa...
Get married? No.
You want to know what I felt, Seeley? I felt... satisfied. Very satisfied. And grateful that I had my own place, my own single life... and you were too.
Check this out.
One perfect fingerprint.
Rehydrates dead tissue, and fights static cling.
Oh good Lord, you have to stop mounting each other in the office. Doesn't marriage destroy sex? Please Angela, say yes.
You were working it. A little professionalism would be nice, people.
And you? Anything?
At least he didn't jump you.
And it would be left on the bones as the tissue decomposed and was stripped by the rats. Seafood.
With sushiguy...
Funny, but I haven't found a written confession yet.
bl*od traces on the dashboard where the vinyl split. Lots of bl*od on the seat, floor mats... Looks like Carly was definitely k*ll inside the car.
Hello, possible semen and vaginal contributions.
Whew! Smells like a urinal.
Sorry. I forgot you were buried... Look, if this is too difficult, Hodgins...
What is it?
I don't even wanna think about your pillow talk with Angela.
The vaginal secretions are consistent with Carly's DNA.
I ran the seminal DNA through CODIS and the military database, and found a match.
It would explain why he spared Abby.
I wonder how hard it is to sneak off base.
Either that trunk was packed with invisible pillows, or Abby's lying to us.
Booth?
According to the medical report, Abby's got bumps and bruises, yes. But they aren't at all consistent with the way she would've been thrown around in that trunk. She should've had more broken bones.
None that I found.
Of course.
The Stooges?
And they did it in Abby's car? No wonder she was pissed.
Oh boy.
Drives the car into the ravine, where she expects it'll be found quickly...
What's with the tone?
Can you do it?
Why not?
Her skeleton was removed.
Don't base that on skin tone. She was boiled which is why we could only get partial finger prints.
The v*ctim was boiled and a number of incisions were made from the top of the skull, around her right ear and down her right side. Then from the left foot, along the outside of the body, to her left hip.
Definitely not. An untrained hand, but a very sharp instrument.
The entire skeletal structure removed. Then the skin was sewn back around the organs.
The organs are damaged, due to the clumsy cutting, but everything's there. Except the brain and the eyes.
Well, it's all gone. I didn't even find one bone.
Very witty.
Oh, no. You did not.
This is..it's....absolutely... HODGINS: Brilliant?
Useless. You need the exact shape of the skull to get a likeness. Not just a....this is...turn that off.
I can't find anything on how to estimate the height of a body without bones. Does the skin stretch or contract without a skeleton?
I'm finding bruising on the torso. I'll subject the tissue to reflectent spectroscopy to get a rough idea of when the blows were sustained and whether they were fatal.
Which is exactly why I called for you, Bone Boy.
Yes. X-rays showed it was lodged in the fatty tissue of the leg.
It's just a knee cap, Zack. Don't get too excited.
Good to know.
So what? You got a part of the groom instead of a piece of the bride?
Whatchamacallit.
Makes sense. Especially if this is a - dead people bone marriage thing.
None of Harper's w*apon show any sign of being used to dissect a human being. No protein residue even under ALS.
Only that it was sharp and straight edged but I did find evidence of toxicity damage to the kidney.
Well, the bruising could have been a result of Falling's disease. Toxicology identified the toxin as a root called lei gong teng. In small doses, it's an anti-inflammatory. In large - it has another name. Loosely translates as "walk seven steps and die". I'll have Booth check out Chinese herbalists.
Because they're deceased?
Which is zero because they're skeletons.
The mortician's lawyer advised him to clam up. The Chang's now say the $25,000 was used to pay off a family debt.
You mean like we're possessed and doing their bidding?
Ther are four mortician's working at that mortuary and a half a dozen assistants.
No crematorium at that mortuary.
Okay. Well, you do that. We should find out who poisoned the v*ctim and arrest him for m*rder.
The v*ctim seems to have fried. Local cops think a radical environmental group did it. Last week, apparently they torched a Hummer. Sign was the same- "Big energy is k*ll the planet."
Ya think?
Your people are getting them now. First responders said the vic looks like a beef jerky.
And good-bye. I'm going to focus on Mr. Jerky.
I've never seen a burn like this before. Small stature, I estimate late teens, early 20s. If anyone's interested.
That's what I thought, but the plant engineer said if there was a power surge...
Well, a real mummy that appears to be covered in fresh bl*od, and given the trajectory, it's an arterial spurt, most likely from a stabbing, and this is a lot of bl*od. I doubt whether whoever it was survived.
Database has no match on the bl*od. Hodgins found some 3,000-year-old bugs, so he's all weepy. I hope Dr. B. can get the mummy to talk. Research, I assume.
What are you doing here, Sweets?
You don't know who Britney Spears is, but you know this movie.
Dr. Brennan.
Why wasn't he reported missing?
The FBI has locked down the Egyptian wing, looking for evidence.
Perhaps, but it's sad nonetheless, Dr. Brennan, to lose one of our own here at the Jeffersonian.
Not appropriate, Dr. Hodgins. Dr. Kaswell's bl*od's a match for the spray we found on the mummy.
It must have lacerated the internal carotid artery. That would be consistent with the arterial spurt.
Perhaps the m*rder used the same w*apon that k*ll Dr. Kaswell to open Anok's chest.
And there was nothing in her notes?
Heart like a marathon runner. She probably would have made it to 90 if this didn't happen.
Maybe there really is a curse. Messing with mummies...clearly not a good idea.
Seriously?
Well, I guess I'd be angry, too, if someone pulled my brain out through my nose and stuck it in a canopic jar.
We need so much more than that.
Not that I'm aware.
The redheaded boy pees on the molten metal.
This is Azita Jabbari from the Egyptian National Museum.
Ms. Jabbari wants her mummy back.
Yes, we do. Anok is evidence in a m*rder investigation. Whoever k*ll Dr. Kaswell stole something from inside the mummy. Any idea what was inside that was worth k*ll for?
Dr. Sweets.
Haven't seen her.
This is Dr. Kaswell's brain.
No.
Really. I have a 16-year-old and believe me, when it comes to dating advice, I am batting a red hot zero.
Did you just call me old?
Yeah.
All right, give me a ballpark. No specifics. I don't want specifics.
You are an excellent shrink. You know you can help people, but Daisy's not people. She's the person you love, the person you have to trust. If Daisy's gonna screw up, you have to let her. It'll show her you have faith in her.
It was kind of good, wasn't it?
No problem.
And now we're done. Done. Ooh! Dr. Sweets, you're crushing me and I think you're getting brain on your suit. Brain.
And an uncomfortable one. You need something, Ms. Wick?
Oh. Thank you.
Can you enhance it?
A ruby.
It's right where Anok's heart would be.
Booth cleared him. He was working on dioramas at time of death but Azita Jabbari, she knew about them, too. She gave permission to have them done.
I’m right here. I’m the cat.
I’m the cat, who’s giving the mice the rest of the day off.
And I’m driving ANGELA to the train station.
Yes, I am.
Have a good weekend!
I’d rather brief everyone at once.
I’d rather brief everyone at once.
Good, we’re all here.
A body was found roasted beyond recognition in a large convection microwave oven on BOOTH and BRENNAN’s flight to China.
You were on my speed dial.
You mean, ANGELA and ROXIE...Well...Yeah, it means something.
Looks like you managed to get the remains out of the oven.
A macro photo of the v*ctim’s follicle suggests brown hair, maybe red.
What would cause those kinds of burns?
So, a petite brown- or red-haired woman with fake nails.
ANGELA and HODGINS noticed a shadow in the exposed part of the sternum.
ANGELA suggested that you take as many photos as possible at your highest resolution.
Any luck with cause of death?
We’re looking at the margins of the b*rned flesh around the rectus abdominis...
Look, just think of it as bone wrapping. From the photos, it looks as if there’s a pinkish coloration. Is that correct?
Okay, that indicates presence of bl*od flow at the time she was cooked.
Since the oven temp was set at maximum and she was approximately one hundred and ten pounds...uh, can you describe the breast tissue?
Okay, that means she had to be cooking for about six and a half hours.
If I were you, I’d get some tissue samples.
BOOTH, you’re cutting it pretty close, there.
Just sign it.
Sign the warrant. Please.
Or so alive!
Russ wants to make sure his step-daughters are taken care of if anything happens to Amy.
Well, unless he's already had a hip replacement, it sounds like there's a key in there.
The ligamenta flava shows evidence of whiplash. All the para-mortem injuries are consistent with vehicular trauma. She was dead prior to immolation.
Does yours ever look pink?
Let me run some tests. See what I can find.
Zack, really. Too much sharing.
Got the scoop on the poop.
It was pharmaceutical dye used to color the phenobarbital that showed up on his tox. screen.
Oh, his name's Andy? Adorable. I had a dog named Andy. That came out wrong.
It's often prescribed for seizures.
Well, he was still breastfeeding, so there's a slight chance he ingested the drug that way but... the depth of color makes it unlikely.
Did you reference it against currently registered key patterns?
Most safety deposit keys are numerically coded.
Okay. How many? Exactly?
Kids. 'Cause a million seems a little impractical.
You don't by chance live in a shoe, do you?
Eh, screaming, crying, vomit...other bodily fluids. It's like a day around here. It's not worth giving up this body for that.
I have some info about the skin Hodgins found on the g*n's trigger.
It was male: not Meg Taylor.
So this Dave Shepard guy is an accountant? That's usually not a profession I associate with k*ll.
Yeah, well, tell Booth I just found the guy. Or parts of his skull, anyway. I ran the DNA from the bl*od on the duffel bag and the frontal bone fragments from the g*n through CODIS-both his.
He was sh*t in the head by a male, with a g*n Meg Taylor was trying to hide.
That's where you come in.
He's on his way.
Doctor Brennan, he's the Chief of Pediatrics at Children's National Medical Centre. He's the best.
Hey. Andy has a genetic condition.
Vitamin D resistant rickets. Meg had a mild form, very few symptoms; she probably didn't even know she had it.
Including the seizures. The clinic probably prescribed him the phenobarbital without searching for underlying causes.
Absolutely. Very treatable. My friend can treat him as an outpatient. Andy's going to be fine.
Don't mention it.
v*ctim's decomposing at an accelerated rate.
No sign of radioactivity and no chemical that I'm aware of that would cause catastrophic cellular necrosis.
Yeah, and they're everywhere.
Dr. Brennan, can you help me lift the v*ctim...gently?
Richard Dominic Genaro. Born September 25th 1986, 6'2", 195 pounds.
Before we answer that, I'd like to get him back to the lab.
On three...one, two, three!
You're...stronger than you look.
Are you being sarcastic?
Are you being sarcastic now?
We'll screen for amphetamines, Ecstasy, cocaine...
This was one big muscly guy, he had only four percent body fat.
Sounds great to me.
Smashed on top of the head?
We know why the cheese skippers were literally flipping out.
Which explains why his remains decomposed so quickly
There's more. Glycerin, surfactants, lanolin, petrolatum, vegetable oil, coconut oil, and copious amounts of artificial fragrance.
And he thinks that explanation shows a positive attitude?
Another cheery thought, once I removed the scalp, subscapular hemorrhaging was apparent.
Which means for the v*ctim to have taken a swan dive onto the pavement, he would have had to do it twice.
Most likely, he was struck in the head twice by the same w*apon. What did Hodgins say about the concrete sample?
We should do a search for any w*apon that could be made of Minutecrete.
Angela, can you run a search on possible w*apon made from Minutecrete?
Something that could cause fractures and subscapular hemorrhaging oh my God.
You're...
Pregnant. You're pregnant.
You've got that whole glowy thing and the crackers...I mean, nobody eats crackers for pleasure.
I was right! I knew it! Um...are you happy about this?
Oh...m-maybe you should lie down.
Oh, of course. Just you and me.
I-I won't breathe a word.
Oh, I'm just so happy, this is so great, Angela, I'm...
That...she is...
Yes. And you shouldn't disturb her, Mr. Fisher.
And I'll...go...away now.
The m*rder w*apon was some sort of concrete cylinder?
What are you doing?
You say that like its bad news.
O-kay. First, tell me the brainstorm.
Yes. From a blow to the skull?
That's what caused the microfractures. No, why are you yawning? Are you depre...don't yawn.
How long ago did Dr. Brennan have her brainstorm?
So basically, you're 45 minutes behind arguably the greatest forensic anthropologist in the nation?
I'm not a psychiatrist but it seems to me that if your shrink says look on the bright side, he means give yourself the benefit of the doubt.
Yeah. The v*ctim was k*ll, and then frozen?
Put on ice?
Or not.
I'm still...this is everything you own in the world?
This is everything.
And he just got it.
Oh, speaking of which, I've gotta get home to Michelle and I don't want to reek of wine.
Bye, guys.
That suggests a .22 or .25 caliber. I'll keep my eyes open.
These abrasions are patterned. Repeated blows with a perforated surface?
Jarhead, it's really you.
He's getting so big. Soon he'll be wanting a later curfew and a car of his own.
So, the Pentagon huh?
I would be delighted.
Sounds good.
Not a bad day's work.
Oddly I think it's more important to catch this m*rder. I'm working.
I found a match for our v*ctim's DNA on the felony database.
No, I think she and Jared had a late night. Open the attachment I just sent you.
That's our v*ctim.
Reads that article on the inventor and figures there's something to cash in on.
You're the one who said you didn't mind them going out together.
Did you just get in?
Can I offer you a little insight into Booth's little brother.
Jared Booth.
Because... because... ANGELA: Because he's Booth's little brother and it would just be a creepy way to have sex with a Booth without having sex with the real Booth.
Kudos Angela. I would not have had the guts to say that aloud.
Looks like a drowning v*ctim.
Washed up at Anacostia Naval Station. Last known address: Bowie, Maryland.
Your people found a fingerprint on the bag of money.
What happened? I watch TV, State Police getting all the glory for that big RICO case. What the hell?
Don't you lie to me big man, I'm your friend. I know where this came from, and it wasn't from on high.
Your forensic techs got an ID for the fingerprint on the money bag.
Stegman, but not the one you're thinking of.
Nope, the wife. The fingerprint belongs to Lily Stegman.
Dr. Brennan. I don't want you to think this is an intervention.
Oh, then, then it is an intervention.
Sweets came to me with some theories about Booth's family life, and he pretty much nailed it.
Booth's been digging Jared out of trouble since they were kids. Jared always comes up smelling like a rose and Booth takes the hit.
I've known the Booth boys for 15 years.
Yah? Well, cut it out.
I am absolutely certain that however it is Booth lost all the credit for that RICO bust, it's because of Jared.
How about this, the last time I told Booth what I thought of Jared, he didn't speak to me for six months.
We're saying maybe Booth deserves the benefit of the doubt here, until all the evidence is in.
Okay, here's some evidence. The b*ll*ts that k*ll both Stegman and Pongetti were fired from the same g*n.
Should I tell Booth?
Oh, God, here we go.
Caroline! Gas on a fire.
Morning. I'm Detective Saroyan.
Official visit. See the badge?
A body was found at your nightclub.
Ready?
Which one's closer to the washroom, your office, or the kitchen?
How is it that the chef heard your assistant shout, but you didn't hear a g*n?
Obviously you weren't where you said you were, so where were you?
You think that was insensitive?
Why? They bust up and you finally get a crack at her. It's what you want, right?
Somebody turned off the security cameras.
Your wings have been voted best in the city two years running.
You're the hostess, you see everyone who comes in.
Have you witnessed any... altercations, any differences of opinion at the club lately?
Why would crooked politician tell you about not getting a pay off?
Should I mark your people down as "stupid" or "uncooperative"?
How about I put 'em down as "accessories after the fact"?
I'm afraid you won't be able to reopen the nightclub for quite some time, BRENNAN: Well, where can I appeal that decision?
Wow, what they said about you was true!
That you're kind of a cold fish.
No I meant more like somebody when a human being is m*rder cares more about reopening the club than capturing the m*rder.
Where were you really last night? Who were you with?
The v*ctim was k*ll by a g*n wound to the chest. g*n are loud, but you did not hear it. You were not in the building. Either we talk about this now, maybe it goes no further, or otherwise I've gotta pursue this line of enquiry in a graceless manner.
You pride yourself on being pragmatic, I figured you'd appreciate the logic.
Will you two let me do some of the detecting, please? Saturday Night Special. Totally disposable.
Who is this now?
They never get anything right.
The m*rder v*ctim's been identified as Dick Worstenbach,
Where did you get this?
Which means that Worstenbach was in your club last night, but nobody saw him.
That is one of out theories, yes.
Max likes to say he works for the Gravedigger, makes him scary.
Our first job is to find out who k*ll Worstenbach, finding out who sent him is totally secondary.
Never.
You people are lying to me, and until I find out why you can't have your DJ, nor your assistant, nor anybody else I can scoop up.
Let's take 'em all.
Nope, he'd of taken credit if he did it, used it to scare your brother. This guy's got nothing to do with Worstenbach's m*rder. Let 'em go.
GPS puts you in this building at the time of the m*rder.
Lose the w*apon Detective.
By the barrel, nice and slowly.
Put the handcuffs on, Jared.
That's enough. We're going. Now.
I thought it was a lovely service, Booth.
Informed by who, exactly?
Gormogon?
Snacking? As in cannibalism?
Oh, god. Who has he eaten this time.
I've seen enough.
Well, it's a pickle. The platform's a crime scene but we need to access it to investigate the crime.
I'll make this easy. What do you need first?
Let's go people.
Okay, the tooth sockets may contain enough tissue to check DNA.
Well, a toothless cannibal just can't cut it in todays competitive serial k*ll climate. How do you know he wore dentures.
I'm gonna go out on a limb here and assume that's what dentures are made of.
I got our v*ctim DNA results back.
Yup. Gormogon's last v*ctim.
What's that sucking sound?
If you want to do one of your experiments, just say it.
Go! Make plastic, cannibal dentures.
Okay, a medical teams on it's way. Oh my - I'll get the burn kit.
Do you know how this happened?
And you won't be alone, Zack. One of us will be here all the time.
And I'll write us a schedule.
Hey. There's something in the Gormogon vault I think you should see.
Security had the entrance to this wing locked and the vault, itself, was secured.
They all failed.
When Zack's expl*si*n set off all the alarms, every security camera in the building failed.
Ten minutes before the expl*si*n -
Fast forward; Hodgins passes Zack the container of tricyclic acetone proxide..
The expl*si*n occurred at 12:03 and 22 seconds. At 12:03 and 22 seconds -
All dead too.
There was a chemical accident. That takes precedence over any other security issue. All personnel went to secure the lab or went to secure any point that went to the museum proper so there'd be no loss of life.
Yes, until the security system was brought back up at 12:18 and 41 seconds. The expl*si*n was a diversion set up by Gormogon.
Hair? Prints? Anything?
It's my people you suspect here. I wanna make sure your doing your job. After all, you're a prosecutor, not a forensic-
This is my department!
Are you saying I'm a suspect now?
You've got over thirty agents here. Find something.
Who?
Well, it makes sense.
What? Throw suspicion off him.
Sweets.
Well, he shows up right after you find the Gormogon vault, when Gormogon's at his most vulnerable. And in therapy, he plays you two like a cheap piano until you ask for his help with the case.
No, hey! We all trusted the brilliant, young, profiler. I got him security clearance because he was gonna help us.
He's the only one we can't account for after the expl*si*n.
I was a cop for ten years, Dr. Brennan. I can smell it on him.
Well, then find it. Cause trust me, Sweets is your boy.
Dr. Hodgins, knocking would be appreciated.
I can't say. You know that.
Do you have a legitimate reason to see me or are you just here to squeeze me for information?
To remove tissue.
Lead?
I thought the city had to replace all their lead pipes.
Isn't that your house?
Yes, of course. I'll pass this along to the investigators.
Is there anything else?
Yes, but that would have raised suspicion if someone had double checked your results.
Don't you think it's time to go home?
Don't worry about it. It's going around. Hodgins came to talk to me and I almost jumped out of my skin. What's keeping you so late?
It was treated with ultraviolet light?
Who would do that?
How do we sift through 10,000 sets of remains?
It's the Lobbyist that disappeared. DNA's a match and so are the dentals. Dr. Brennan's gonna want to take a look at the markings on these.
Gormogon went after this like Henry the 8th after a chicken leg.
These appear to have been gnawed on too. They'll probably match the denture markings Zack found.
You haven't looked at them yet.
And?
Not often.
The theory of conditional expressions is a non-profound generalization of propositional calculus.
Well, there's a little thing that looks like a Japanese stool then a B with a tail and a fat fish. Does this makes sense to you?
I'm sorry, but I have to ask. Are you absolutely certain because-
I did not see that coming.
Did you get him?
Good riddance, I say.
Ugh. You know what? The hell with Zack. He's an adult, he made his choices. People are who they are. There is nothing any of us could have done for the guy.
Yeah, well he k*ll someone. He deserves to be locked up for the rest of his life.
I knew the day I met Zack, he'd cause me pain.
Where he's going, they might actually let him have it.
Oh, I got him that.
Huh. Anything off the spectroscope?
When the shark attacked the v*ctim, he was still alive?
Probably blunt-force to the throat.
The v*ctim was stabbed in the eye?
Okay. Well, That makes this an official homicide. The v*ctim was as*ault and then dumped into the t*nk alive as a means of disposal.
Why is it here?
If you have a year to wait.
How specific is it?
Why can't you just lighten up the guy's face and, you know, zoom in?
I was just asking.
Okay. Well, we'll print that up and get it to Booth.
Are you sure?
Unconscious underwater, he was dead with his first breath. And those fish tore him apart. That's where this poor nut case's theory actually holds true: eat or be eaten.
Shrimp can live out of the ocean?
Moving on.
Oh God, please tell me that's not-
What do you want from me?
Why?
Boys, you've got Spam and Sea Chimps, you get anything out of that, I'll buy you each a car.
None of those is a trade name for Nevirapine. Wait, MK0518 is still in experimental trials to replace Nevirapine.
Booth?
Better?
Yes. Maybe we'll get lucky and ID the poor bastard that way.
Where's Dr. Brennan?
As mandated by the Writ of Exhumation by Judge Theodore Kemper of the D.C. Federal Judicial District - I, Dr. Camille Saroyan, will be performing an autopsy of Special Agent Augustus Donald Harper under the auspices of the Jeffersonian Institution. Date of Death - June 25, 1978. Date of Internment - July 2, 1978. Date of exhumation - that would be today. Also present at the post exhumation autopsy is Dr. Temperance Brennan. The original autopsy, in 1978, found that Agent Harper was k*ll when he was sh*t 3 times, at close range by a .38 colt, detective special revolver.
2 shots to the chest. One piercing the heart, the other the left lung. The third, a sh*t to the frontal bone..
That b*llet hole in the head, that's from a .38...
I can already tell. These two holes are from something a whole lot bigger than a snubbed nosed revolver. Something more like a r*fle that a sn*per would use.
We're gonna conduct this one, like the whole world is watching.
Suspended's FBI speak for fired.
Guys. What we're dealing with here is that - Booth - won't be working with us anymore.
Zack, you're an excellent scientist, but an important part of the job is appearing as an expert witness in court.
Jurors have to take you seriously and frankly, you look like a weekend fill-in at a college radio station.
The bl*od's not Russ's.
Didn't have to. Both Brennan and her brother are O type bl*od, as was their mother. The bl*od sample you brought me, was AB - therefore...
I just saw her. She's on the way to see the priest.
He said he had something for her.
What's this?
I can't put him in front of a jury, I'm sorry. I'll put in a good word in Pure Research. That way he can come visit once in a while.
Very impressive.
All right, he's hired. Who am I to break up this team?
