Yeah, his overall strap got caught in this branch.
Oh, yeah, that is definitely a b*llet.
So what am I looking for?
Arsenic, cadmium, lead and copper. Ugh.
Did you know that the life cycle of a truffle relies on a complex chain of symbiotic relationships?
Someone's getting marked tardy today.
Well, that's where it starts to really get weird.
So it has to be either Tripp Warshaw or the guys from CryoNova.
Those were the last four bone fragments buried in the muck.
Our real challenge here is getting the acid concentration just right by getting the right piece of pork to mirror the relative mass of the actual v*ctim.
Yeah! Eat that there, Oliver.
Hey, Oliver, looks like you got a little piece of lint there, buddy.
Ooh.
This, my friend, is what we call a victory lap.
Hey, I have the results.
You were supposed to say no.
And the article describes you as robotic.
Yeah. It was before you called me short.
Yeah?
The accelerant was distilled alcohol.
Tell you this: If Epps comes near Angela, I'll k*ll him.
And you have the big g*n. Hey, tough to keep that one a secret. Beautiful woman with a w*apon? Very g*n & a*mo summer issue. I'm gonna concentrate on my work now.
I got the chemical breakdown. Powders in the bone are organic. It's a mixture of cardamom, tamarind and kokum.
Yeah. The bone wasn't cooked. Why would he add spices to it?
ANGELA!
What happened?
Son of a bitch. You don't have to stay inhere, Angela.
Angry. She insisted on helping me, which worked out well. She realized that the present Epps gave us was a recipe.
No, the ingredients in the vial. After he ground up the bone, Epps mixed it with spices: the cardamom, tamarind and kokum - which are all used in making curries.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know!
Zack saw everything.
A few feet.
Zack says it was some kind of powder. Which means there could be traces on her clothing.
Can't find any traces of powder on Cam's clothing.
Yes. You're sure it was a powder.
It had to be a gas.
No particles on her clothing. Zack, it had to be a gas.
Of course.
Because Cam's dying, and I should be with Angela. And because there are no particles.
That's right.
I'm not angry at you anymore.
If I put too small a sample into the photoelectric aerosol sensor then I'll both lose the sample and not get an accurate response.
We're not getting enough. Not to mention the particles themselves are extremely small, about 1.6 micrometers in diameter.
I don't know yet.
It's none of the common poisons: arsenic, cyanide, mercuric chloride.
The white powder? It was just common plaster dust.
Drywalling and . . .
Booth.
I'm sorry man. Without more material, it's just . . .
What?
BOOTH! Whatever you got better be worth dying for.
What the hell are you? You're not a bacterial protein or a non-opioid analgesic. You're not a neurotoxin or a heavy metal. You act like chloromethane, but Zack said that there was no sweet smell when the powder was released.
Just . . . working through this as systematically as possible.
Don't get paranoid.
Methyl bromide mixed with plaster dust. That's what made it so hard to isolate.
Racemic epinephrine. I called the hospital, they're starting an I.V.
Hey, priorities in life, man. One, be there when someone you love comes back from the brink of death. Two, catch the serial k*ll. Everything after that is basically unimportant.
There's copious insect activity from the sewer.
These duds, are not department store issue. That is real ermine. That's a hand tailored suit.
He keeps a list. Checks it twice. What's the big deal?
So Santa parks his sleigh, unloads presents, fills stockings, eats snacks, gets back into his sleigh and onto the next house in about 1/1000th of a second?
Mhmm? Plus traces of residue on the canine - could this be clay?
Come on. Where's your holiday spirit?
Phorid fly maggots, third instar and the appear to have been well fed as well. Santa was around some other food source before he died. My bets on milk and cookies.
Some kind of old injury?
Cloven like...a reindeer?
Oh, thank god your here. This is so wasted on me alone.
Our v*ctim - was kick by a reindeer.
He was a teacher?
Or THE Santa Claus?
Maggots in dead Santa's collar - fed on high concentrations of non-sulfated chondroitin glycosaminal glycans and antecedal neuraminic acid.
It's the regurgitated saliva of male Aerodramus fuciphagus. Wait. Booth hates talking to me?
Main ingredient in bird's nest soup. It's a rare Chinese delicacy, made from the nest of swiftlets. It's more like bird spit soup if you ask me.
I'm thinking China TOWN - is more likely - but I also found similar traces of the same stuff on the back of Santa's pants. Mostly on the rear end.
Yeah. Let's hope that's how that got there.
A single kilogram of White swiflet nest, costs two grand.
Done and done.
Booth.
Your kid like roaches? Gromphadorhina, man. Hissing roach. Hey, grab me this container? This is a great pet, man. Perfect Christmas gift..
No. Not yet, I'm still looking.
It's the cycle of life, my friend. Quite beautiful if you get into it.
Paydirt! Fannia, Musca and Phoridae and these are the exact maggots I found on Kringle's suit. This means this is where he was k*ll.
An ignominious end for for Father Christmas, huh.....Whoa.
Whew. They were near the bottom. No cash. Just ID's and credit.
Hey, you found cash in Kringle's apartment, right?
Maybe he picked one pocket too many.
Booth.
Ya help me outta here?
Booth! Booth. Oh come -
Hey. Some metallic flakes embedded in the bone. Trying to help Zack determine what kind of w*apon was used.
Aww. Too bad Santa's dead.
Oh.
Are two people a family?
Then I think us making decorations is just corny enough.
We know what it was made of.
Paradigm shift was my idea.
6 inches.
I have a mass spec up there?
Hey, so, I found these...
Hey, Angie. So, I found this wrapped around the v*ctim's wrist.
I got some grass clippings, dog poop, and... looks like a wad of chewed-up watermelon gum.
Oh, ho-ho, yeah.
Want to see something amazing?
I got the results back from the Mass Spec.
They probably thought it didn't matter because he was homeless.
You robot reminds me of you. You tell it to turn, it stops. You tell it to stop, it turns. You ask it to take out the garbage, it watches reruns of Firefly.
Hey, we've got about half a liter of pure alcohol here. Dump it in the eggnog, and we've got the best Christmas party in history.
I brought an eggnog.
Good thing I didn't bring it for you.
Like Alien after Predator. Sit!
We may have to rethink.
Burnt.
Okay.
Uh, we might know.
The other was... drinking an eggnog.
Hey, I got into the decontamination shower with Zack. Haven't I been through enough hell?
I'm supposed to go to Quebec.
Who forced me to go to the party where I drank to much and had to hide from Crystal?
That is so not fair.
Tomorrow I was supposed to leave for Quebec. You wanna know the true meaning of Christmas? It's being inside a 300-year-old inn with a French Canadian masseuse when there's ten feet of snow outside.
Nah, I'm gonna have to go with the masseuse on this one.
Could someone in a position of responsibility please order Zack to shut up?
I'm in.
Mm, yeah.
I've got five numbers in my head and five letters. You tell me the number and I'll tell you the matching letter.
Sequential, we'll go in order from oldest to youngest.
There's no six.
Yeah, that's good.
Maybe string a bunch of test tubes together, fill 'em with luminescent liquids.
We're friends.
We're... not friends.
Booth has a kid?
Puparia show Lionel had valley fever.
Wow, was that a sh*t? Because I apologized. I mean, Goodman doesn't get to see his family, Zack doesn't get to see his kids, Booth doesn't get to see his son. At least I'm an accidental Grinch. All due respect, you're the Grinch on purpose.
The Grinch is a relatively well-known creation of a children's author named Dr. Seuss. Listen, I got Angela for my Secret Santa thing and what I wanna do is blow up a microscopic image of the toxic mold Stachybotrys chartarum because I know she's very interested in fractal imagery. I thought that might appeal to her aesthetically. Do you agree?
You didn't know?
I wasn't the one who told you.
So if Lionel was a coin collector, that might explain the levels of lead and nickel in his bone.
Whoa, apparently Careful Lionel wasn't so careful.
Although I believe organized religion is just another political movement designed to control the masses, doesn't mean God doesn't love me.
Is there any way Lionel was an African American?
In Okalahoma?
It's... prettier if you don't know the details.
A sacred scarab. That is excellently rendered, sir. Thank you.
It's a robot.
Yes! We are outta here! Merry Christmas everyone!
Aegialia concinna.
Also known as Scarab b*at. They came from the soil around Billie Morgan. These adults, feed on putrefied organic matter. Or in this case, Billie. As a result they suffered unusually short life spasms.
More likely the powerful glucocorticoid in her system. I've yet to isolate which one specifically.
You think the mob would come up with less clichéd ways to whack people.
Did you find a specific cause of death on Billie Morgan yet?
A broken rib punctures a lung, causing massive internal bleeding.
Oh, won't Dr. Brennan will love the hear that.
This husband could really dish it out.
Yeah. That's certainly possible.
Unless she wasn't wearing gloves.
Ultimate fighters.
Dude, it's barbaric, When it shows up on cable I can't turn it off.
Completely sanctioned. They do wear some protective gear, which would fly in the face of our girl's injuries, though.
Illegal, no hold barred, slug fast. Modern day Panem et Circensus. But generally there's no free bread. What?
I found something in the particulates from Billie's shoes. Traces of hexavalent chromium. It's a chemical used in high end automotive shops, specializing in chroming. Mechanics who use them have to file reports for the EPA.
Am I interrupting something?
Yeah, I'm on it.
Ah, the sweet science.
Ya know. 900 B.C.- the Greek ruler, Theseus, entertained himself watching two men sit in chairs b*at each other to death. Just saying. It's nothing new.
Or a razor wire. Luca Brasi. The Godfather? Please, someone buy a DVD player.
Yes. A garrotte pulled so tightly around Luca's- or rather Robert's neck-CAM: -that it sliced through his throat and severed his corroded artery.
Alright, with the federal prosecutor here and Billie here. Both show evidence of topical chemicals. Now this will extract the elements I need to cross reference with the dead b*at, safely.
We've all been in a fight or two which we wish we hadn't.
You've never fought? Never thrown a punch?
It's not about logic, it's.-it's emotional. It's anger.
What if you're sitting on the beach and someone kicks sand in your face?
Alright, work with me here Zack. There has to be something that would piss you off. What if I call you a scrawny twit who can't hold a normal conversation with a ten year old.
Dude, you're a Vulcan. And a dull Vulcan at that.
Alright, now you're pissing me off. You're a freak man. Anger is a part of being human. Grow a set.
You know, it is not enough to be some robotic second rate grad student.
Yeah and you're going to be a grad student the rest of your life because you have no fire.
Ah, please. You've been saying that for years. You're a poser. You don't have your doctorate because you have no drive, no passion for what you love.
Dude.
You got pissed.
Nice punch, though.
That's good.
I'm moving. You're not going to hit me again are you?
How's this for coincidence? Scarab beetles from Robert's body had the same short life spam as Billie's - but not from cortisone His bugs died from ingesting pinus elliottii.
Yeah, pine oil resin is often used to treat the same skin conditions as the cortisone that k*ll the other beetles.
Or disprove it.
I'll take your robe.
Whoa, easy on Billie's chest there, Marisol.
Billie ducks and than causes the maxillary fractures on Marisol's skull.
The tide has turned my friend.
She doesn't fight. She dominates.
Wow.
Okay, now this is weird. There's some guy in the lounge who asked me to give you this.
I didn't put a mirror underneath his nose or anything. He said you'd know who he was when you opened it.
This is like watching cars mate.
Very, very close?
What we need is a toaster oven.
There's always enough insect activity.
Old teacher.
Ain't gonna happen, Zack-o, not in this universe.
Using a refrigerator to hide a body. It's kinda perfect, isn't it?
You worried about her?
Remember that time you were late?
You were Brennan's professor?
That's what Clinton said.
Oh, burn.
This seems like an appropriate moment to discuss human goop.
Chemical analysis of the liver and kidney tissues reveal significant evidence of the narcotic hydromorphone.
Given her probable size and weight, it's fatal.
Sciarids, also known as dark-winged fungus knats, went through several life cycles. Also present were Acaridae and Anoetidae, but the most interesting find was not a bug at all, but was common bread mold. All this data led to the same conclusion: Maggie Schilling was in that refrigerator between 10 and 12 months.
Woah, look at that!
Sure! Booth said the dude melted into the truck.
I know but they sure appear to be melted.
A b*llet.
Melted. Sorry, but I don't know any other word for it.
Yeah, how did you know?
Right, because...
... the biogenetic composition and structure of the bone mineral would have crystallized and the bones would appear as if they had melted!
Really? But for magnesium to ignite, it needs to be wet first. So, last night, when the mass spec identified magnesium, I checked the meteorological charts a light rain fell last night in the vicinity where the body was found and I believe I thought of that first but then, I am King of the Lab and you? You are my serf.
Logical assumption.
Which means it wasn't fired from a g*n.
You suggesting I conduct an experiment?
9 mm b*llet is on the magnesium. Now, I can see if the fire would be enough to set it off.
Yeah, which would explain the lack of striations.
Now, the mist simulates a light rain because water is needed to ignite the magnesium.
Here. Given the fluorescent spectrometry of magnesium, you're gonna need those. All right. Any second now.
Ow!
You sh*t me!
"...an equal and opposite reaction." I know. Now, can you please go get me a first aid kit?!
Ow! Go!
I got the swab results back. S.E.M. analysis says the m*rder w*apon was a kn*fe made of carbon steel.
It also means that the kn*fe you found in Randy's locker was not the m*rder w*apon. The kn*fe that stabbed our v*ctim was laminated in silver.
That's right. No one uses silver to laminate a blade... unless it's the Damascus blade.
h*tler had 30 Damascus blades hand-forged as presents for his top commanders. Now, those knives were coveted by American GIs. Some of them were taken as souvenirs by soldiers in Patton's Third Army.
Yeah, I know. The m*rder w*apon must've belonged to Jesse Wilson.
I think Booth was on to something.
Well, the so-called instances of spontaneous combustion can actually be explained by a phenomenon known as the wick effect. Okay, here's the classic example. Heavyset guy, passes out from booze holding a lit cigarette. He drops the cigarette onto his pajamas. PWHOO! The fire melts his belly fat.
Fat burns in, not out which explains why nothing else caught on fire.
So then the v*ctim was k*ll before the fire even started. So you, uh, met Booth's grandad?
Wow, that's a big step.
Well, well. Showing a little interest in the personal lives of your co-workers there, Clark?
You're moved?
Haglund's deformity?
This orange goo looks like melted polymers. Can I grab a sample here?
The orange glob of goo. Polyethylene terephthalate. Right. It's polyester. It's the perfect wick. She had to have been wearing it when she was lit.
Not enough residue for it to be a coat or pajamas or anything.
Yeah, I mean could be.
The v*ctim worked at PriceCo.
A super-size male.
And I'm still working on these inorganics.
Which allows you to calculate height. That's brilliant.
Not Pops. But I'm interested to know what's going on.
So this was melted onto one of the bedsprings.
It's a gastric banding device that actually limits the amount of food a person's stomach can hold at one time.
Yeah, exactly. I talked to the doctor who did the operation. It turns out that the slim ring was not registered to Meg Tracy, but it was registered to her roommate, Stephanie Stevens.
Resin consists of turpines and phenolic compounds.
Teak, to be exact.
The what?
Meg and Hugo both had roommates. The house was cheaper than a hotel.
He k*ll them, sets the bed on fire, then leaves with the busts of him and his wife.
No, no, no. No, you just put it in a lunar orbit and send some guys up there.
Ooh, ghosty.
I wanted to sh**t the g*n.
The only thing the three of us have in common is that kidnapper.
She was k*ll in a car accident in Boston.
She wasn't getting close, she was barely conducting an investigation.
I was just working off adrenaline. How long ago did the Gravedigger get Booth? What kind of time do we have?
There. That's everything.
Yeah. Probably came off the bumper of the vehicle the Gravedigger used to run me over. Only shortly before he buried me alive.
I'm pretty close to...discovering the manufacturer. Which will help us narrow down the suspect pool.
You don't know what it was like. Being buried in that car.
I know. And if we turn over that evidence we will never catch the Gravedigger.
Okay, okay. Let's just take 10 of those hours and see if we can do both. Brennan, I'm telling you the answer is there.
10 hours?
I got it.
Vega lives in a penthouse apartment just off the boardwalk.
Do you think this is my fault?
Rationally speaking, it was inevitable. It would have happened anytime we got close.
It's Vega.
He's dead.
We should take his body back to the lab. Obviously the Gravedigger k*ll him. There's got to be some evidence that we can use.
Agent Perotta.
Mr. Vega was writing Surviving the Gravedigger and wanted to talk to us.
It was a...breakfast meeting.
Well was he under surveillance? Because a fat lot of good the FBI did him.
Why not? They have us under surveillance.
Vega's dead.
Yup. FBI Special Agent Perotta.
What? Woah-woah-woah. We just do what he wants?
We didn't talk to the FBI, they talked to us.
We still have time: to catch the Gravedigger and to save Booth.
Why?
No...No. Nobody does anything alone. Vega was alone.
That's how the Gravedigger will see that we brought what he wants.
I gotta say, it doesn't seem to be the smartest move to just hand over this evidence. We need to be rational. We should maximize the chances to catch the Gravedigger, not minimize them.
Hey, this guy. I really, really hate him. I will find you!
Go, go. Go, go, go.
You okay?
It's over. Booth's dead. It's....my fault. We're out of options.
What? Oh.
It's......possible. She had complete access to FBI files and evidence. Nobody wanted the Gravedigger case; it's a career k*ll. But with Kurland out of the way... BRENNAN: Have you injured yourself recently, Ms. Taffet?
It's her.
You have to do "spring cleaning" on her.
The government keeps secret, black, illegal files on every US citizen. It's called "spring cleaning" because everything's brought out into the light and turned upside down.
I'd like to k*ll you. I hate her. I think I could m*rder her.
You got to get your hands on some truth telling drugs.
Would you rather torture her?
Hold up, these boots were worn recently.
Aedes Sollicitans? It's a common marsh mosquito. bl*od's still in its gut.
At least in the last 24 hours for sure, but wait a second. I got some paint chips here.
Yup, I'm on it.
Active amine hydrogren, epoxy, hydroxyapatite and silica. It's...it's an obsolete composition of deck coating used by the Navy prior to 1961.
Yes! Yeah, an old one. Most likely decommissioned.
What?
I'm thinking it's Mothman.
You know what I'm thinking?
Crows.
Hi, Angie.
These conifers would have provided cover so that the fire wouldn't be seen by predators.
Ange doesn't like that we're on different sides.
I'm pretty sure the reason they call the justice system "adversarial" is that it is competitive.
I'll explain "crazily competitive" to Zack over and over again until he gets it.
You've never told us that a trial is no different from any other trial.
I'll ask Dr. Brennan directly. If she says okay, then I'm onboard.
These are very, very small traces of copper left here in the mylohyoid line of the mandible.
As with most copper pipes, it's made of copper.
I found particles of the same soil at the m*rder scene and at the rooftop where the body was b*rned and at the Our Lady of Angels Seminary.
That someone transferred those dirt particles from the seminary, to the m*rder scene to the roof top.
Angie, they aren't kidding around.
Yes.
Aside from some dormant anopheles mosquito larvae, I imagine whatever the water from the lake tells us, it'll be through a microscope.
I'll get on the fluid samples you took from the lungs and oesophagus. Could be the vic was drowned somewhere else and then dumped in the lake.
The water I found in the v*ctim's oesophagus, not from the lake. Lake water is microorganism infested. Water in his throat, deionized brine water.
Deionized brine water freezes clear. It contains an anti-freezing agent, which I know sounds counterintuitive...
Kind of jumped my punch line there, Dr. B. But, yes. We should see what rinks are closest to the lake.
We should be able to get enough DNA out of this to confirm the bl*od is Carlson's. Whoa. Human tooth.
Looks like we found where the Tooth Fairy winters.
Did you find a match yet?
Cam says it's definitely the v*ctim's bl*od.
Yeah, I know, I still haven't identified the nylon polymer I found on the v*ctim's shirt.
They parallel the dragging body. And they aren't smeared.
Well, that means we have to check for more than just Pete's DNA.
Grab your coat. We're going on a field trip. And tell Cam to check the rink samples to find out if there was a second source of DNA.
Absolutely.
None of them look nibbled on. Oh, man, they should've gone at each other like a Peruvian soccer team stranded in the Andes.
How they died?
Ooh, if Brennan were here, she'd smack your face. Her philosophy is, we find out the facts about everything, then see how it fits together. Photo opportunity.
Yep. It's the v*ctim's goldfish. They died of ammonia poisoning.
I don't know. Maybe the v*ctim washed his aquarium with window cleaner? I don't know. How are things with you and Roxie?
I, um... actually went out on a date last night.
Any little twinge there?
Oh, I'm not back in the saddle exactly. It was just a first date. Barely got out of the barn.
Yes... yeah. Yeah, it was a pigsty.
There has got to be some reason these fish died of ammonia poison.
What?
Whoa, wow. Oh wow. Buried treasure.
Find out why the hell he was hiding jewellery in a fish t*nk.
We're not idiots.
The v*ctim was a fireman.
Stole from the fire, cleaned off with ammonia.
Judging from the algae, he's been fish food for quite awhile.
Which would explain why he has all those holes in him.
Wow, Jimmy Cugini.
Cement shoes, pretty trite.
Should we really be involved in mob stuff? I mean they're really into to the whole k*ll thing.
With a man?
Yeah, I have.
I'm doing the fecal floatation now. I don't get to say that a lot.
That is possible.
Fasciola hepatica, it's a parasite found in beef liver. I found their eggs in the dog excrement. The dogs were strays that were starving so someone must have lured them to the scene with liver scraps because there was no evidence of any liver found at the scene.
It's possible.
The concrete used to sink Cugini is composed of class F fly ash instead of Portland cement which is very exciting.
Each concrete company has its own unique mixture, certain building codes have to be met. But after that it's up to each company. These people were cutting corners by using fly ash which is much cheaper. Tapford Construction, six years ago it was owned by Carlo Romano.
I just finished working with Forensics at the FBI, analyzing the chemical compositional of the expl*sives. The isotopes and the sulfur are like a fingerprint. It is a perfect match to the sulfur manufactured by the chemical company Hollings works for.
Hey.
Sure, yeah no. She's with your compadre. I came by to see how you are.
Pudding, I still remember this stuff from when I got my appendix out.
Yeah and they found a map of the neighborhood where the other body was found and some more keys.
No, I guess not or maybe your k*ll is getting sloppy.
Well it wasn't like him to use expl*sives either. People change. It's the wonderful thing about life. Now we can get him before he gets Brennan. Can I have this one?
You okay?
You're thinking that it's the mob guys we're after.
You're feeling something a little more devious more like a frame up. Oh I like it, very conspiratorial.
Go with me on this. Mob guys know you're closing in and want to throw you off by making it look like the psycho, and these guys have been involved in conspiracies a lot more complicated then this. They set up Lee Harvey Oswald, worked with the CIA to k*ll Castro. Forget about what they did to Marilyn Monroe.
Someone at the lab works for the mob. I can see it. There's not much difference between a corrupt corporate government and organized crime.
Excuse me?
People never tell me I'm right. They only say I'm crazy. Love you, man.
What the hell are you doing?
Cool.
Maybe that nurse was right to be pissed that you were leaving. You don't seem good, Booth.
Brennan is not picking up her cell.
Hey, it is not your fault.
You know maybe you're wrong. I mean Hollings is missing, right?
Because he is dead?
This conspiracy thing is a lot more intense when you're in the middle of it.
Oh. A building. Oh yeah that's really specific.
I can do that.
Maybe you shouldn't have had all that pudding.
How's my sweet thing and her precious cargo?
I can't wait until we start to tell people. I think we should tell people now. Okay?
No. This is a big deal. We need to throw a party. I mean, like, tomorrow night, Founding Fathers. We'll get food. Some drinks. I mean, everyone will be so excited for us. I can't wait to see their faces.
Yes, good point.
Sure. Good.
Um...Angela's got something to ask you.
I am the lead on this, Vincent, as well as the king of this lab. Now, the lights will melt the chocolate evenly and won't damage any evidence trapped inside.
I'm going to turn the lamps on now to melt the chocolate and to stop you from talking.
What is going on?
Are you saying the chocolate trapped the v*ctim's final breath?
Oh, make your point.
But we have to melt the chocolate in order to get any information from the bones.
No interesting facts off that?
Ooh! Those the bubbles?
Wow.
Done. I sifted through all 1,873 gallons of it. Nothing but the usual.Ant torsos, spider legs, rodent hairs.
Yeah. FDA permits 60 insect fragments and one rodent hair per 100 grams.
Yeah. Uh, hey, so are you, are you, uh, you coming tomorrow night?
Angela asked you?
Good.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Yes! Yes.
There's an extremely high concentration of carbon dioxide.
It was a postmortem eructation.
Yeah. Isn't that awesome?
So I went to the liquor store and I bought every brand available. We ran it through the GC Mass Spec to compare their volatile composition.
Damn.
You made my day, Vincent. Thank you.
Both entertaining. But what really does it for me is that foreign object you gave me to I.D. It's a bug. Helopeltistheobromae.
Most of one. It's part of the Miridae family. It's found primarily in Indonesia.
Well, when you do, make sure you tell her the best part. One of the little guy's favorite snacks?Cocao plants.
Got the analysis of the latest air bubble. It's good news.
Is this Michelle's essay to Johns Hopkins?
It's very good.
I thought she wasn't applying to any other school besides...Oh. You're writing Michelle's...Oh, that's bad. I mean, that's just wrong.
Of course...Mom.
Do you think everyone's here?
Okay. All right.Um, hello everyone.Uh, all four of you.Our friends. Um, thank you so much for coming out tonight to hear our big announcement. Maybe you've already guessed?
Yes, our-our best friends. Good, um. Vincent, what's the matter?
Okay, yeah. Um. Ready?
Angela and I are going to have a baby!
Stop. You knew, didn't you?
Mm-mm. They knew.
That's why no one else is here. Because you told them if they couldn't fake surprise, not ot show up.
I can't believe you told them without me.
To our family. Yay! To our family.
Huh.
No, no, no, hold on.
Yeah, but, come on, dreams aren't always literal.
Look at this, the Gestapo's interfering with free inquiry.
We threw it from the top floor.
To prove that Kristen Reardon was dead before her skull fractured from falling down the incinerator shaft!
The office suites. It's always the suits, baby.
Yes, yes you do.
I never liked Kyle Aldrige.
So was h*tler!
Excellent name! And, historically accurate.
Mm.
Zack provided me with the fragments.
Running it through the GC Mass Spec.
I analyzed the ashes in the incinerator and found carbonized traces of cedrus libani. It's a species of cedar fir from Lebanon.
And the Mesopotamians used cedar as an odor neutralizer to mask the smell of burning flesh?
Really?
I'm not Gormogon. I don't k*ll people and eat their faces. I am not waging a secret w*r against anybody.
Oh, I'll help you get to sleep tonight.
GC Mass Spec analysis of the fragment we pulled from Kristen's rib. It's an eight hundred year old copper.
I thought we'd see if we can match any of the w*apon in the Jeffersonian with the sample.
Checked it out from where?
It's phenolthalein. It won't affect the copper, but if bl*od is present it'll turn pink.
It's not the w*apon we're looking for. I'll put it back. .
Help!! I need some help back here!!
Booth! Booth!
This cord is actually a hanging rope from England circa sixteen-fifty. In those days, when sentenced to death, nobles often chose a silk cord rather than rough hemp and rope. It'd be cool to know who else might've died on this cord.
Au contraire. The k*ll left DNA. In order to hoist Aldrige, the k*ll wrapped the cord around his forearm and pulled.
Yeah, and hair.
King of the Lab.
Why are you here?
She's done. Why are you here in my area?
Duuuuuuuuuuuude.
Wow. Alright, alright, uh . . . How are you, how are you gonna' break it to Cam?
You want her to find out from her sister?
Sorry.
I'm sorry No, it's serious.
This is a sample of eight hundred year old bronze.
Because we found a fragment of eight hundred year old copper in Kristen Reardon.
Copper is an ingredient in bronze and when Angela accused me of being Gormogon, it started me thinking.
It started me thinking that you and Booth could be right. I am NOT Gormogon.
I put the serial k*ll in the vault out of my mind and started considering Kristen's m*rder as it's own . . . singular . . . occurrence . . . What?
It's possible . . . that the copper in Kristen's wound was an unalloyed chip from a larger piece of bronze, like a chocolate chip that didn't mix in the cake mix.
None of which are in Gormogon's vault.
Theoretically, but it would take about two hundred years to test every bronze w*apon in the Jeffersonian.
Why?
Alternative explanations?
Kristen was impaled? Like a piece of paper on a message spike.
He died of succinylcholine poison.
I checked every bronze w*apon in the Jeffersonian that matches Angela's criteria, none are consistent with the fragments removed from Kris- - ten.
No, no. We have x-rays, guards, metal detectors . . .
It's absolutely impossible.
Oh. Yeah, right, there's that.
The authentications department.
I suppose Gormogon could've mailed himself to the Jeffersonian, stolen an I.D. and simply walked out.
I don't have the necessary clearance.
Excuse me.
Well, Kristen Reardon worked on a lot of sixteenth century Baroque wood carvings.
Daffodil?
It looks like Kristen might've worked on some Luristan bronzes.
Yeah, tools, utensils, sculptures . . , BOOTH: What's Luristan?
Kristen Reardon was a smuggler?
She goes to report something and the smuggler k*ll her.
The European hornet queen I found on the remains puts time of death at November of last year.
The wood is from a Betula Uber, a sub-species of round leaf birch tree that's been extinct since 1800. The legend says that Maggie Cinders k*ll her v*ctim with the same old axe used to decapitate her - in 1783. Anyone else feeling tingly, or is it just me?
From the axe attack. What? It's always an axe, isn't it? Remember The Shining"?
Looks organic. Definitely decomposing.
That's too bad.
Because drugs would explain the writings I found inside Graham's backpack. I'm cleaning them and taking mud samples, but I think Booth should show them to a profiler. They're handwritten, scrawled. So far all I can make out is: "Maggie came to me again, calling me". And last but not least, "They will scream for air, but their lungs will fill with bl*od."
I found rust flakes on the neck that were from hand forged iron.
You got it.
Nice follow-through, dude.
Dibs on the next w*apon.
I know where Graham Hastings was m*rder.
What's with the music?
Smart. We have to go through all the video again. Hastings was k*ll in a patch of eastern hemlocks like this. They grow in clusters throughout the forest. We have to spot the cluster Graham and the others were near.
Don't worry. I'm right here for you.
You're supposed to be looking for eastern hemlock. It's much more effective with your eyes open.
Yeah. But where are they? Go, go forward. Stop. Dense crown, fine branches, scaly bark and wide ridges. Those are eastern hemlocks. Love your eyes. Now we need a landmark.
Wait a minute, wait a minute. 2:37 a. m.
We have a date plus an exact time. I - I can estimate the position of the moon from shadowing patterns on the forest floor. We should be able to get the approximate latitude and longitude.
Let's just work out the coordinates.
And the other skull?
This axe handle is birch. Betula Uber. Same extinct species as the wood fragments we found in the bone.
Come on. Let the kids have some fun, Mom.
Practiced in the 1700s on those suspected of witchcraft.
Of course not. I mean, there's no way to know, right? I'm just saying. It's interesting.
I've determined that the assailant was wearing rough-hewn leather gloves, but I still have to check-
So, it's definitely not Maggie.
The glove fragments on the handle were coated with diammonium phosphate and a guar gum-derivative thickener.
It's cool. I don't have anywhere else to go .
No, no I haven't seen that piece.
Had to be. Or some moonlight.
Sure. No problem.
Angela is going to be hypnotised.
She's going deep into her subconscious to remember her husband's name. So we can find him, divorce him, get married ourselves, and live happily for all eternity.
Berimbau. But our private investigator says it's a nickname.
Suddenly filled with a sense of... well-being.
The shiny substance you found on the v*ctim's nose and mouth? It's sunscreen. Per the manufacturer, it protects and maintains the natural colour of coats, manes and tails.
Formulated for horses.
Manufacturer recommends against use on human skin.
She's goin' along with the horsey thing.
What?
His name is Ed.
Fill the negative space with Microsil, thus determine the approximate shape of the blade's tip.
You know, this guy got his rocks off pretending to be a horse?
I've never tried that.
Wh- why?
...Cantaloupe.
...What's goin' on?
Cantaloupes. Zack and I need 'em for an experiment.
Yeah?
Yeah, I'm not sure those'll be any help.
You were married on the beach at dawn in the middle of nowhere.
You are.
Come on, Angie, embrace the irony. It's what makes you you. You married him, then you're gonna marry me. None of it makes any sense.
Cantaloupes. It's a common mistake, and hey! You need to relax. You want me there when you go under? I can hold your hand or something...
Oh-kaaay...
This is me, walking away with my melons so you can relax. I love you. Psycho.
Ta-da!
That's unusual ZACK: Not if you're a horse.
Um, I'm not a horse.
What is that?
It's a cantaloupe.
Alright, now I'm thinking that we should place the melons at exactly five foot eleven, which was the v*ctim's height. And then we should devise a plan to pull the cantaloupe away, because he most likely saw the kn*fe coming-
...Okay. Fine.
You know, we used to think things through together.
Looks like we found the right w*apon.
He was slaughtered like one, too.
Alright now, the v*ctim's hands were tied together like this-
-With baler's twine.
Yep. It's embedded with a UV protected filament that prolongs the life of the twine in sunlight. The technology is patented, and they sell directly to the consumer. They had only two hundred and twenty eight sales last year.
I'm on it.
Aww, I found something very interesting!
Excellent insight, Zack. But the polite response is, 'Really, Hodgins! What did you find?'
No I wasn't asking you, I was telling you you should ask me.
The feet? Were severed with the hoof kn*fe.
Because I told you.
Traces of steel left on the skull matched traces of steel left on the feet.
Same w*apon. You suck all the fun out of every moment of personal triumph!
So, I uh, I looked up 'wasp' in dream theory.
I know you do. And guess what I found? A wasp signifies anger and envy. These are good. Any chance it was a bee?
A book about nuclear radiation creating a giant wasp.
Sight-seeing.
What's it mean?
That's Birembau!
Well his face is turned, so there's still not much to go on- God, the guy is a giant.
"Angie and Grayson." His name was Grayson!
You did it, Angie! You really do want to find him.
To divorce him.
Or if the body was pushed up against a rock wall inside a strong hydraulics system.
Hey, do you know that I used to have this exact vintage Hubley plane when I was a kid?
All done. So many tunnels in there. Like an ant farm.
How's that for hard science thinking? Good boy, Arastoo.
It looks like a human skeleton.
Why?
Natural fibers like cotton would have decomposed to dust or tatters in say, I don't know, four months.
Check this out. Initial analysis of the powdered bone dust revealed traces of Blastomyces Dermatitidis. It's a fascinating fungus that quite literally eats bone.
It must have been introduced to the bone before he died.
Well, it's bad for him but good for us. I mean the fungus probably hitched a ride on the m*rder w*apon. Now, check this out. I crosschecked the CDC's infectious disease map for outbreaks of the fungus in the area. There was an outbreak in Kalorama Park about six months ago.
Added twist - as well as the fungus in the bone dust, I found flecks of bronze in his wounds.
the bronze particulates I found didn't come from the paint on the Shakespearean Looney Tunes.
I dunno. Maybe a pipe?
Well, I pulled all of this so I know he used the screwdriver to open beer, scrape dog excrement off the bottom of his shoe, stir coffee -
It's been six months. There's not much chance that the fungus would still be evident on the smooth metal surface.
Now it's time to go to the source. The CDC reported three more cases of Blastomyces Dermatitidis linked to Kalorama Park.
Ah, b*at cultural anthropology, don't it?
So far none of the food stalls show evidence of fungus.
Well, look at the bright side, now we can eat this Pad Thai.
Hey, there's definitely some kind of eukaryotic organism growing on this. These trash bags, they all come from the restroom, huh?
Do me a favor; separate all the bags from the restroom from the others.
Hey, hey, hey - Blastomyces Dermatitidis. All right. Park janitor collected what we needed.
I think we just found the m*rder w*apon.
Yeah.
Careful where you're going with that razor sharp blade there.
I need some gold.
Now the process is called vacuum metal deposition.
Now, gold will bind with the lipids from fingerprints at the atomic level. Now this technique involves coating a thin layer of thermalized metallic dust onto the evidence.
Well, yeah, gold conducts electricity better than any other non-corrosive metal. What did you have to pay for it yourself?
Okay, here goes the gold. Now evaporated zinc will only condense onto metal. Since the gold has bonded with the fingerprints, there's more metal on the print than the rest of the sample. Voila.
How do you know?
You know I do.
Hey, just getting enough to verify his results. Remember, he's a government bureaucrat.
In name only. I am a passionate, dedicated scientist who will not be cowed by authoritarian pressure.
But... CAM: Out.
Fine. I have to check the fingernails anyway.
Yes, please. What? No, no. Um, hmm? Ja..Hodgins. Doc - Doctor. Okay.
It's Ho-
Yeah. I know.
You wanna perform capillary electrophoresis?
Oh yeah. And it will save time so Angela and I can have dinner. Alone.
But they leave behind pieces of shrapnel you might need.
Hey! Hi. How as your visit with your-
What? No. I'm - working. Hard. I'm gonna go right now and work. Hard. Some-someplace else. So -
Hey. What are you doing down here?
Look, Angie, Um- Agent Frost is a colleague and I am a professional. Okay, so all that stammering and stuff - I mean that's not - that isn't - you know that's involuntary - it's a bodily thing. Yeah. That didn't come out right. Look, I'm not gonna deny that she is attractive -
Yeah, I know. I mean -
You know who's totally hot? You. You are totally -
These were in Any Nash's bag.
Yeah. Yeah, Cam needs you to restore them.
I - I - I - I have to uh - so I love you and -
Okay.
I confirmed triphenylmethane dye and iron sulfate embedded in the manubrium and the flesh. Both are found in ball point ink.
Angela's working on recreating the design.
In Russia, prisoners made tattoo ink by burning the heel of a shoe and mixing it with soot and urine.
Mom had a little thing going on the side with Satan? Oh, the burbs.
Wait, wait, wait. Is that a fist?
So she wasn't Satan's old lady - she was in the NLA.
Student radicals in the 70's. Thought they could change the world. Set off b*mb in army recruiting offices, torched cop cars-
That was the burglary. They broke into house of a defense contractor to rip off his safe- said it was the people's money. Here. June Harris and her boyfriend, Neil Watkins were charged with the m*rder, but never found.
Love Huntzinger. Real old time lefty. Worked the Chicago 7 Trial. Sued Nixon, the CIA, Bush -
Graphite glaze, triple F goex. Supporting grade -
Yes. Yes, I am.
Well, I - complex molecular structures. Hey, how's it coming - with the-the-the detonator?
Microscopic glass chips. Probably the crystal. I'll, uh, take a look at the -uh composition to see if I can - um - locate a - manufacturer.
You're tossing the air filter?
Yeah. Even better. Do you have any idea what kind of treasures might be trapped in here? Don't touch my things. Watch her.
He also made the b*mb. The watch used to make the timer? Was coated with a volatilized pigment used by the Sawyer Time Company.
Watkins always used the same type of watch when making b*mb for the NLA. It was a signature. They found traces of them a ROTC headquarters, the IRS office-
He wasn't gonna let that happen. So he made a new b*mb using an old watch and k*ll her. And he left a message for anyone who thought the revolution was over.
Not so sure about that. I have her air filter. It's like an entomological GPS.
She went back to the FBI to catalog evidence. Thank god. She was driving me crazy. It was just science all the time. Then, she tries to destroy perfectly good evidence-
I started thinking about them dragging on the floor when she's 70. How are you doing?
Cool...
I found pollen.
Most of it Pinus Appalachiana. Shenandoah Pine - which is only found on Shenandoah Mountain in West Virginia. There was also crushed Pendleton Leather Flower in the tire treads which is only found here in the Shale Barrens along the upper Potamic - it is very secluded between the towns of Hendersonville and Maple Flats. Booth! I know where you can find Watkins!
Booth! What the hell is taking you so long.
I was cataloging the watch debris and noticed that the oxidation and bacterial erosion of the metal was inconsistent with watches that would have been stored in evidence for 30 years.
Yes, but I found a few available on line for collectors - still sealed.
Didn't have to. Since the watch was 30 years old, the b*mb had to put in a new battery - he left behind a thumb print. The casing protected it during the blast. I asked the bureau to run the print.
Ugh... So far I have three old beer cans, an Indian Arrowhead, seventy-three cents in change, and a partially-melted Sharpie.
Death by yoga?
What, like jumping out of a tree?
Okay, even I didn't get that one.
It's not going to work...
Dropping loud pieces of metal to hurry me up.
Just going to have to wait.
Titanium, magnesium, and heat-treated boron particulates are embedded in the skull fractures.
What?
It is possible that these particulates aren't from the tool, I mean, not from the tool alone.
Hand-made racing motorcycles are made from these metals.
It's-it's not a bicycle. It's a motorcycle.
Drop those. Drop them. I mean it Zack, b*mb away.
It means I don't handle irritation as well as I'd like.
No. You can pick one up. Most likely culprit.
Okay...
I do bugs and slime; I don't do arithmetic.
Good. Good job, Zack.
We both are. Let's go tell Cam.
Can you estimate the amount of force?
Half a ton.
A boxer's fist can land with double that force.
Yeah, with the force spread out over a hell of a lot more than 3.8 centimeters.
I'm gonna go back and look at very small things under my very large microscope.
I don't have the w*apon, but, I microwaved the fabric samples and used gas sensors to analyze
I have identified what was on the v*ctim's clothing.
It's toluene. It's a clear liquid used to clean up oil.
You know, I'm feeling really underappreciated today.
It's also excellent for cleaning up bl*od.
bl*od suspended in toluene might be testable for DNA.
I'm waiting.
Recovering ink traces on plastic and polymers is problematic, so, I am using a new technique. A little of the reagent Eugenol, and Voila. E-eh say-pers doh coh.
Korean restaurant?
That is an enormous amount of variables, Zack.
Don't think so.
Definitely not.
Oh my God. That's it. Motokneescrapers.com . How'd you do that?
It's the website run by the journalist that Tripp put in a wheelchair.
Or, it fell in the mud when the body was dumped.
Apparently, the toluene---
caused a false positive.
Yeah, I did another scraping of the fracture and I found a sliver of glass with--
--a mastic film on it. The mass spec shows it as a nitrate of silver, so I think we're looking for some kind of mirror.
Those're bl*od flecks.
We have no way of knowing until DNA tests is done.
For somebody not strong enough to swing the entire length of the bat, of course! It's a choke-up.
Sweet.
Okay, I would definitely not let Dr. B hear you say that.
Yep.
Angela.
All right, so I found some fibers around the v*ctim, as well as some beads.
Yeah, seriously.
This is definitely the m*rder w*apon.
No.
A senator? Oh, we're moving up in the world.
Cam and the senator?
You touch my arm when I laugh.
Dude, he got hit by a train.
W-A-R...it's all I can make out of one name. And then, 'love Brianna'. ...dude.
Forties. 6 foot 7. W-A-R...Brianna? This is Warren Lynch.
Yeah.
Warren Lynch and Senator Davis, k*ll in one accident? No way it's a coincidence.
Cool. As long as paranoia's on the schedule somewhere.
You should be okay with Dr. Saroyan getting the Head of Forensics job.
Because you are strictly rubber-to-the-road, hardball scientist. Not a flesh pressing, ink stained, policy making...wanktard.
We were discussing her mother's case.
It's a...very interesting case. Brennan identified skeletal remains as her mothers. k*ll by a blow to the head. Initial suspect was her father, but in the end we arrested a pig farmer hitman in Witness Protection Program, added wrinkle, but-
It's a...made up word. No meaning.
Two types of glass were embedded in what was left of Lynch.
Tempered automotive safety glass and silicate.
It's 70% amorphous silicon dioxide.
It's like a common domestic container.
If the gas t*nk were full at the time of impact, the fire should have b*rned for approximately twenty minutes without intervention.
And SPAM.
According to the fire department report, the car b*rned for forty minutes and it still took four minutes to put out.
Five gallon Mason jars.
That, or moonshine.
Dr. Saroyan means she'll make us watch musical theatre.
And put one in a coma.
Not Zack.
Flora! Oh, Clark, you shouldn't have. I presume that is for me.
She's doing an isotope analysis. She thinks the v*ctim might be from another country.
If they could, they'd start in the morning and go until they drop.
Who's a hottie?
Yeah, sure. If you like athletic, confident, young...
Yeah, that vine on the bones? It's kudzu. The growth rate suggests the body parts had been undisturbed for approximately two months.
Perry's a senior, isn't he? You know, that might be why he's pressuring Michelle to have sex.
During the Crusades, knights used to lock up their wives and daughters.
Right. Yes. May I? So, the v*ctim's bones, they were covered in a sedimentary rock dust comprised of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur, so as indicated, he was most likely hooked beneath a coal car.
Ah.
Yup. Just finishing up now. What are you doing?
At rocks? That is so my domain.
Depends how you define "something". I mean, all rocks are a tangible representation of the awe-inspiring passage of time on this tiny planet that we call...
They're your basic Paleozoic-era metamorphic rocks.
They're the kind of rocks that you clear awaywhen you're plowing a field, so there's nothing distinguishing about them whatsoever, except for the awe-inspiring passage of time thing.
Uh, eastern bluebird. They're a pretty common songbird.
For Fred Flinstone, maybe.
So then, where does a kid like Levi learn about pianos?
What are you doing?
Even not hearing it, I hate that song.
Now, I swabbed the perimortem fractures on the v*ctim's skull. I found a powder coating similar to the type used on industrial-strength Dumpsters.
FBI techs confirm that the Dumpster has a dent consistent with our scenario, as well as residue of dried bl*od on the steel, which matches Levi Yoder.
That is a foot. Hey, so...
With this many wounds, there should be particulates from the w*apon on the bone.
Not a friend... whoa.
Someone k*ll the Them Apples Applesauce lady.
Regular doctor visits for no reason, a wad of cash.
Seeing almost no insect activity, which means he was k*ll less than 12 hours ago.
"Frak" is the curse word they use on the show, but what's really frakking interesting is that Aubrey told me he's been watching Battlestar as well.
Can I see that?
Also, he had blue eyes. with corrective lenses.
This case is a first for me.
Yeah, I used to be, but then I figured why not vote for a candidate who at least has a sh*t at winning.
Hey.
Whoa.
I found some particulates in the pitting, ran them through the mass spec.
Wow.
Uh... what are you doing?
Right, so this first picture here is of the v*ctim's hotel room.
Hey.
Something is not right underneath this guy's shirt.
I saw them rushing him into surgery. It didn't look good.
Yup.
Bertha.
Factor in the delayed bug activity, and this body is more than two days old.
Man... if only you had an expert in forensics and earth sciences who could totally tell you exactly where those bones were.
So, Bertha's rainfall raised the water line of interest by approximately four inches, just enough to lift and carry the loose bones and fragments.
Ironic since he's running now.
Right. Wasn't your fault, dude.
Ooh! And it's not even my birthday!
I'll take any tissue that's stuck to the plastic. There'll be sediment and organic particulates.
I found something that might put a new wrinkle in things.
The fish was a Pomatomus saltatrix, a blue fish common to Delaware Bay. And there were dinoflagellates consistent with the salt water in the bay.
But I also found Didinium, a ciliate. And Oomycota, a mold. Both of which are found in freshwater.
Exactly. Fresh water first for at least six months.
It has to have the same sediment, larvae, archea, helminths.
The only body of water that might have algae and sediment that could match what we found on the remains. Whoo! Seems to be a lot of Gamophyta.
I guess I just like Gamophyta.
Geek chic, dude. Agent Blondie over there thinks I'm hot. How you doin'? .
You know, I went out with a woman who had a little kid once.
The kid hated me. You know, he said I used too many big words.
He hit me I the head with a Tonka truck. Ah, I could never sleep with his mom again.
I was good to him though, you know. I did not deserve an 18-wheeler into the parietal bone. Oooh! Nematodes and planaria.
Not sure.
How did you do?
Sediment and organic material from the lake doesn't match what was taken from the remains. I have to look for another body of freshwater, I don't think it's around here.
The next body of freshwater that might match is over 60 miles away.
Cliff Notes version: we all stab, one of us is the k*ll.
Okay, okay.
Congratulations.
Well, these seem to go right through.
There are particles in the kn*fe marks. When she was on the ground the kn*fe passed through the body and picked up sediments from the dirt. The next stab embedded that into the bone. If I can get enough information from these particulates I might be able to locate the site of the m*rder.
We hit pay dirt. Actually, we hit silt containing the feces of the gypsy moth, some quartz and mica. That and the zinc levels in the dinoflagellates from the freshwater as well as the Pinaceae pollen led us to a patch of pitch pines outside of Gloucester City, New Jersey.
Zinc, mica, feces. This is the place. Oh, it's beautiful.
A lot of vacation cabins nearby. If she was upset, this would be a good place to unwind.
Zack was working in the other kn*fe mark. I saw something staining the groove it left, so I did tests. The stain was from Betadine. It's an antiseptic used to prep patients for surgery.
It's a baby. It looks like every baby.
Judging by the use of debris to cover the remains between feedings, our v*ctim's been here at least six hours.
No...
It's a substance used to make acidic soil more habitable for plants.
Look at this. Tox screen results on the pureed maggots: tequila. The maggots were hammered.
Yeah, but it gets better. The weird glaze on the vic's clothing wasn't extruded fat. It was glycerin.
Oh, that is some seriously good pizza.
Okay, we are in.
Okay, perfect.
Ready?
Carefully. Careful.
Okay, this is embarrassing.
Because my phone was within 100 yards of hers.
It's a dating service.
Yes. Along with millions of other people. It's called "Date or Hate?" When a potential match is within 100 yards, both our cell phones ring. You can either press "date" or "hate." If we both press "date," then we get each other's cell numbers.
I don't know. Maybe she forgot to cancel.
It's not about the sex. I was looking for a meaningful connection.
You do?
No. But she would definitely have many other potential dates. You should talk to the agency. The "Date or Hate?" offices are local.
Okay, all right, just...
Yeah.
Girlfriends.
Trying to fix me up there, Wendell?
Who have breasts.
You don't really know me.
Why? The guy looks perfect.
He is real. Owen Smith, her final date. Connected at 7:45 the night she disappeared.
See what? What are we looking for?
Someone created the perfect man in order to meet our v*ctim.
Based on blowfly larvae, the body was on the riverbank for two and a half days.
Hey, how's it coming?
Oh, man.
Hey, Dr. B.
Looks like some trace transferred off whatever was used to sever the finger.
To be fair, there've been more unsolved cases ever since Dr. Brennan left.
Yes, unfortunately, though, that is just the appetizer.
Trust me, a vulture's stomach acid is around a one on the pH scale.
Cam, so,
Yes! Okay.
Too big to be buckshot. Photos you sent of the first one show to be a ball bearing approximately 17.5 millimeters.
Well, when I receive them, I might be able to ID the manufacturer and intended use, which I imagine was not m*rder.
Well, there's no striations on the ball bearings in this photo you sent so there's no evidence that they were sh*t.
Like a cat dealing with water.
She was covered in ethyl parathion and aldicarb. It was all over her space-age outerwear. It's an insecticide. It's extremely illegal in the U.S., but it's still sold south of the border. It explains why the adipocere dried so quickly.
Nice metaphor.
My guess, it's important enough to k*ll for.
Hey, man, did you hear? Brennan's sending the v*ctim's SD card from Roswell. Probably video on there the government wanted suppressed. Because at Area 51...
Sure, yeah. Something wrong?
Yeah.
Okay, all right.
Oh. You're kidding, right? Go ahead, kid. Knock yourself out. Hey, good luck with that.
Oh.
No, no, Wendell, Wendell, stop, stop, stop. It's been over between Angela and me for a long time. I have moved on. And you know what? I'm happy for you, you know? And for her.
Yes, really. You're both my friends. Why wouldn't I be happy for you?
of course. I'll tell you what, hey, why don't the three of us grab lunch together, huh? This is a good thing Wendell, this should not be weird for us.
Great, good, good.
So the swab from the v*ctim's damaged patellas show traces of sediment but it's not cement.
No, the sediment is gypsum, dating back to the Pleistocene and Holocene eras. It's probably from the Tularose or Estancia Basins.
Yeah. Northern Mexico is the closest occurrence of this rock. Here's an interesting conjunction of possibilities: the insecticide that she was soaked in, it's called 'Tres Pasitos.' It's not available in the United States.
Readily.
You guys can hold hands, if you want. Eat off each other's plates. I mean, any and all of that kind of gooey romanticism is completely fine by me.
I'm just saying you don't need to be afraid or...
There. See? My head did not explode.
Sweets, there's nothing to face, okay? I mean, we can see why you'd think that but we're all fine.
Two t*nk trucks, some sort of digger.
Fremontodendron mexicanum. It's Mexican flannelbush.
Whoa! They must've been dumping chemicals illegally.
Yeah, but she still managed to get away. You guys see what happened? She was out looking for UFOs, but found this instead. These guys k*ll her.
So I was able to clarify the chemiluminescent signature of the materials being dumped in the video. Manganese and sodium borohydride. Used in the manufacture of batteries.
I did. Innatron. Mexican flannelbush is on the verge of extinction, right? Innatron has a plant located smack-dab in the middle of the last remaining flannelbush population here in Juarez and they use manganese and sodium borohydride.
Hmm.
You were right, Sweets. Everything is not fine. It's not fine at all.
Don't know if I want to crawl into a hole and die or run over Wendell and Angela with a truck.
But I'm a better man than this. I mean, I want to be happy for them. You know, I really do.
When she finds happiness with someone else, oh, man, it's like being stabbed in the heart.
Yeah, yeah, art, art. I get it. What do I do?
I want to not be filled with anger and pain and resentment. I don't want to be jealous.
Grieving? As in grief?
Oh, man, the only thing that cures grief is time. Unless you're recommending a lot of alcohol.
Man, that'd be great if you could, though, right?
So, just smile and act like a good guy?
You know, there was a time that I thought Angela and I would be together forever. Can I just sit here for a minute?
So we put together a range of w*apon which might fire ball bearings at a velocity congruent with the damage done to the inside of our v*ctim's skull.
Uh, yeah, we, um, well, I guess I kind of got inspired.
All right, goggles, everyone.
All right, okay. So the paintball g*n bearing didn't have enough force to get through my skull.
Uh, uh! I'll sh**t you. Whoa! That was way too much damage. That blew your head clear off.
Oh, I got it.
It was a zip g*n.
That was fun.
Wanna do it again?
Hodgins.
Oh, hey, Dr. Brennan.
Yeah, what about them?
No.
Because they're obsolete. They were manufactured in the '40s and the '50s
Roller skates, fishing reels, yo-yos, turntables...
Wow.
Yes, but do not despair, because the stone contained microscopic particles of diamonds, which means...
Where?
Well, I can do better than particulates.
We've been rewatching the heist video, calculating height, weight...
Wait a second.
That's because she was his wife.
So as you can see, there's a nick in the blade that wasn't there in the photo from the Gem Society, so it had to have hit something hard.
We're not dealing with an amateur psychopath.
Dreams aren't always literal, I mean, Wendell could just be a symbol here.
All right, yeah.
There's no sign of blowfly larvae, beautiful or not, which means the v*ctim died within the last 24 hours.
Yeah.
Well, it looks like our v*ctim fell off the wagon.
Okay, that's it.
So, I even found the breed.
Yeah, it could be.
All right, well, that's a lot better than where we started.
No, Booth saw Jerry Cans of gas.
There's trace lodged deep in the striae. The blade could have transferred particulates from the ground into the wound tract when it was withdrawn from the bone.
So, someone had it out for a cartoon character?
We don't really have enough evidence yet.
I...
Okay, so?
Two coffees, please?
Well, maybe he just had a thing for girls in masks. I mean, I get that.
Yeah.
In an objective, evidentiary way.
You had a point?
Maybe we should just ask her.
Of course. But, as a scientist, I also see the challenge.
Well, mission accomplished there, Dr. Tanaka.
Her.
Yeah, you know what? You're right. Who cares?
She. What she is.
I ran the particulates from the C5 through the mass spec. Nematodes, turbellaria, copepods, blah blah blah... all congruent with the marsh where the head was found.
But I also found bird vomit on the v*ctim's head.
Okay, uh, all right. In salt marshes, there are high marshes, low marshes, and salt flats.
Yes, but the bird vomit comes from catoptrophorus semipalmatus. A willet. The willet is a high marsh creature. But the cadaver dogs are looking here on the low marsh. They should be looking here in the high marsh, where the willet is found.
Yeah, which is why we need to call the search team.
I rarely find motive in bird vomit.
No problem. I'll analyze the water samples from the lungs. Now, I discovered what the splinter from the brain tissue is. It's pseudosasa japonica. It's arrow bamboo. It's ornamental. Only grows indoors in this climate.
Yeah, then the head was tossed into the marsh?
I found dibromides. It's the active ingredient in algaecides used to treat water features.
Yeah, I could match profiles.
The water at the photographer's studio uses chlorine.
No, sir.
Any luck with the microsil?
So... no one asked Tanaka?
Yeah, yeah. No, I know.
Kudzu. Hey, man, this stuff grows about a foot a day, so I should be able to tell how long the v*ctim's been in here. There's staining and pitting on the bones. HODGINS: Yeah.
Clark just finished writing a book.
Ye of little faith.
Absolutely. What's one of a kind?
Yeah, yeah.
See, the animals are kept in pens next to the parking lot at the same studios the Veg-Ta-Bills use.
I ran the compound through an FDA database.
We solve this, we could find out who's behind the whole thing.
But we did.
It makes sense that Cooper would wait until he was dying before he stood up to the blackmailers.
Acolyte.
"Seeley, Seeley, Seeley."
His stepfather had just died.
You were right.
Hey. Don't look at me.
Hey, you...you don't have to keep it a secret from me. If, you know, you're pregnant. I mean, I can be happy for you and Wendell.
What was that all about?
When I do experiments.
Michelle?
Ooh. Sixteen. Ouch.
How do we know these guys aren't t*rrorists?
Standard federal issue cover-up.
Why are these guys letting us use cell phones?
Was that you? Ah, who knew you could yell like that?
I find that so hot.
But not this one.
Who do you think we've got here? Jimmy Hoffa? There. Another cloth fiber. Wool.
No, we're not supposed to investigate. This is America, baby. We can conjecture all we want.
You should do a reconstruction. Hair. It's probably human.
So what? Just tell them we need to see what the, you know, v*ctim's skull looked like before the damage.
Did you find anything?
That was in 1963.
Is there, by any chance, a nick on a right rib somewhere near the third thoracic vertebra?
One of the fiber samples turned out to be pink wool. The bad back. A nick from a transiting b*llet. 1963.
She never left his side.
Because people have a thirst for the truth. And other people want to make sure that truth is never proclaimed.
Mahogany.
It's naive of us to imagine that Kennedy's remains were actually ever interred at Arlington. The hair I found? No cuticle or cortex. It's synthetic. As it happens, after JFK was sh*t, the funeral home tried a cosmetic fix with wig hair, wax, and a metal mesh holding it in place.
Oh. Wow.
Do I say, "Congratulations"?
Well, you know, Wendell, uh, he..He might rise to the occasion. I mean, you know, he's-he's a good guy.
Okay. I'm-I'm gonna say, "Congratulations." Um, not for today but for how you're going to feel about this later on.
You're going to keep it, Angela. You always wanted kids. Lots of 'em. I'm gonna go get the others.
Kennedy was on steroids to treat Addison's disease. That's what wrecked his back and adrenals.
Alex Trebek.
Kennedy wounds exactly.
Since this is based on the official record, I can't believe it.
You think there's no way the president of the United States gets m*rder in public in broad daylight and, and the truth gets covered up?
The highest form of patriotism is to be skeptical of the official truth. That is why the First Amendment, free speech, is first in the Constitution you would die to protect. The lone g*n version isn't possible. The guy in front, John Connolly, gets sh*t 1.6 seconds after Kennedy
With a World w*r II Italian r*fle that was older than Lee Harvey Oswald? Come on.
You're on.
No, we don't have to leave. I know exactly where to find an exact replica of the r*fle here at the Jeffersonian.
Lee Harvey Oswald's r*fle is in the Jeffersonian but the FBI used an exact replica to re-create the assassination. We've got that down in storage.
The janitor's closet is in the lab area. Okay, all right, a couple years ago, right, I check out the claims of this conspiracy group that says that the Jeffersonian was a Masonic construction. They said that there was a passageway. Well, it turns out to be true. Check this out. There's a fake wall in the janitor's closet, covers a ladder.
Yeah. You got a better idea?
Uh, Mr. White? Yeah, I've done all I can do, so I'm gonna leave the premises.
Um... you can't stop me because I'm an American. So, I've got rights.
Hey, nice job with Bush and the whole flying shoe incident, by the way. I want to compliment you on that one.
The president's limo was traveling approximately 4.5 meters per second.
Ten, eleven miles per hour. Okay, so when the lights flash green, it'll be the correct speed and Booth can fire. Ready?
1.6 seconds exactly.
Booth, Oswald was a lousy sh*t. You're one of the best.
In the lab, no wind, no distractions, aiming at fruit. I mean, come on. You barely made the sh*t.
Ange...
You're gonna have this baby.
Yeah, well, when you do...I've been thinking.You're gonna try to raise this kid on your own.Wendell is a very decent guy...
I know. But he's a struggling grad student, and you're gonna minimize his responsibilities for his own good.
Says the woman who consults a psychic. My point is, I'm your guy.
I'm your guy. I love you. I love you and I want to help you in whatever way I can. If-if you want to move in together, if-if you want to get married...I'm here for you. And for the baby. In whatever role you need. Okay.
Man, you Butch Cassidy'd 'em.
It wasn't a test. It was the government trying to figure out if modern forensic analysis could solve the greatest mystery of all time.
What if the only part of Kennedy that wasn't Kennedy was that floating arm bone?
Come on, guys. If they were testing anybody, it's me. They think I'm a paranoid conspiracy theorist.
And that's why we couldn't mark the bones.
So, can I get you a cab?
Oh, well, that must be a big relief.
Everything goes back to normal. How it was before.
Nah. Hey, forget it.
Had a feeling that my Melolonta melolonta might hatch this morning, so I came in the crack of dawn, and there they were. Lined up at the door.
No. The woodchucks.
Yeah. Woodchucks are like girl scouts, only scientific and administered by the Jeffersonian. They brought in a dead body.
Woodchucks are very industrious mire mucks. Okay! Now this is Dr Temperance Brennan.
I wanna know is why aren't they all freaked out or getting trauma counseling.
So they were eco-camping by the banks of the savage river.
The girls fished the body out of the river and brought it to us.
Yeah. They did all that. Water samples from where the body was found.
Plants, insects, soil samples; tagged with GPS coordinates. Now I know my soil samples, let me tell you; these ladies, they are pros!
Hydrogen sulphide?
So he smells basically like a fart.
Whoa whoa whoa. You're referring to ultra secret military experiments who prolong life by inducing hibernation?
It's not ultra secret?
Hey, you wait and see. We're going to find that our v*ctim was tortured a little too enthusiastically when the government tried to bring him back to life.
Yeah! Ooh, just leave out my torture theory.
DARPA created a chicken soldier?!
Maybe that's why we couldn't find the so-called fingers. Cause they transformed into talons. Talons would be much better w*apon.
He didn't drown.
Does anyone has an explanation for these red stripes extending from the soft pellet down to the oesophagus?
Hmm. May I? I don't think these are lacerations.
Syngamus trachea. It's a gapeworm.
I think you're not gonna like my answer. Uh, it's a parasite found in...chickens.
Angela, that is very impressive.
Yeah. You got past that mega horny stage.
No.
I'm not going to be the one who breaks your fast.
It's definitely a chicken parasite we found in the v*ctim's oesophagus.
Okay.
The microscopic metal deposits on the thumb bone does not match the baker's cigar cutter. But fortunately, I'm very thorough and tenacious.
There was evidence of streaming nuclei in the bone cells.
It's okay, kid. Around here, we step in for each other when needed.
Hmm?
Yeah, what did you mean?
There's gotta be something like that in a place that k*ll thousands of chickens everyday. Ahh, here we go. This has narrowed it down. He had beak and feather disease virus.
Wendell and I have been testing chicken factory implements in order to find something that would leave symmetrical marks on the v*ctim.
Mr Bray, please resume in position.
We need somebody to actually spin Wendell on the stool.
Okay, it appears as if the v*ctim was turning and, or rolling.
As it appears.
Not yet, dude. Now we haven't determined is what he would've rolled on that would've done this.
That is because Oncorhynchus Mykiss-- otherwise known as rainbow trout-- are total carnivores.
Hey, you got to admire to admire the guy for never giving up on his dream, right?
Those aren't stab marks.
So the fish didn't eat Nesbit's liver and kidneys-- they were already removed before he was dumped in the pond.
I got results from swabbing the mandible.
Whoa, Angie, check it out.
Sebastian Kohl.
Insect activity puts time of death at approximately 10 days ago.
You know, you get very bossy when you don't have flesh to play with?
But they never found OUT who k*ll the girl in your class?
This is very teenage slasher movie-ish.
Ooh. Come to the king.
High school sounds a lot more exciting than mine.
So you've been through the 'babydaddy' scare before?
Oh, no...
oooh. Ugh.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I had no idea you hadn't told him. Big mouth and I am sorry.
I was gonna...leave but you're kinda in my - you know, I'm gonna go around..
Whoa, hold on. Show and tell is not over yet. So, we have got two particulates transferred during dismemberment - it's a pretty messy process, well, with all that bl*od spurting and muscles and sinews tearing...
Well, after much effort - and expertise - I found calcium sulfate and flecks of 3003-H14 aluminum.
The v*ctim husband had an auto body shop, right? Take a look at this. Looks like transfer from the m*rder
So, someone k*ll her with a really sharp piece of pie.
w*apon. Yeah, we didn't have those at my reunion.
Right, we're looking for a piece of pie, right?
Hey. So the calcium sulfate? It was plain, old chalk and the particles in the stab marks were clear coat varnish.
It's none of my business if you broke up with Angela.
Oh. Yeah. Right. Uh, I'm sorry. Of course. You know what? You - you need to - you need to go out. And get drunk, you know. Pick a fight. Steal a car. Come on. I got your back.
Yeah. I know that already.
You don't have to; I know you.
Someday, yeah.
She is awesome, isn't she.
I know.
But there are multiple wounds. It's hard to believe that she was stabbed, repeatedly, with the star until she was k*ll.
Somebody really hated her.
Hey.
You okay?
Well, he's doing much better than I did after we broke up.
Ange, we broke up. Ya know. You did not dump me and Wendell is find. And I gotta tell ya, I think you left him in - in better shape than you found him.
Still. He is better for having known you, Angela.
Because I've been there.
Yeah.
You told her to do that.
Oh, heck, yeah! I'd love to see how Suzanne Dowell turned out. Oh, man. She used to wear these jeans...must have been painted on.
Aww. Cheers!
So, you guys did math together?
Dude, A little self control.
I'm vacuuming their noses or what used to be their noses. Its fun. Wanna to help?
I'm retrieving pollen that would have been present as they took their last breath, we can match that with the daily pollen count chart the that forest service keeps.
Suddenly what I'm doing is pretty cool, isn't it?
How you feeling? Baby making you sick today?
Well when you feel better we can take off for our Babymoon.
Yeah you know, last trip before we lose all freedom and become our parents which in your case is OK because you know your dad is pretty cool.
But of course. Where else? And you get to eat whatever you like because you're going to look like the Hindenburg anyway.
More to love. You know. More to love.
Did you ID the v*ctim yet?
George Clooney.
Oh v*ctim, who art though.
I have time of... Whoa.. Wow. Is that her?
Huh? No. No. No. Only when I look at you Angie. May I? I, er found time of death. I cross referenced the pollen from the nasal cavity with the chart from the forest service. They died two weeks ago on the 13th.
She's not that great really. Homely actually, when compared to you.
Goddess on high. Mother of my unborn child. Love of my life.
Hey. So I found eggs from the Sternarinker Aphidotia, they were on George Clooney.
I just told you, aphids. So I hatched the eggs and it turns out aphids are wingless
Who's that?
Oh. Hey. Hi. nice to meet you. I, uh, um...Hodgins. Dr Hodgins. I am a big big fan. I just read the piece when you stuck it to SENCOM in 2009.
Hey, maybe while your here you could find out why every time there's a big story like an earthquake or government corruption there's always some celebrity story that takes focus-
You know the BP oil spill, Lindsay Lohan goes to jail and the country takes their eye off the ball.
I love this woman.
We were. Right. Yeah. Yes. No. We were. So wingless aphids they couldn't have existed where we found the remains. They live in windier environments at a higher altitudes so I checked the wind patterns at various altitudes and I found some cabins in the park that hikers use to rest they must have been there.
Alright!
Yes, these are the tires from Lupe Rojas' car. She denies going to the park but Booth doesn't believe her.
Exactly. You know, you could be my lovely assistant.
Ah. yeah. Right. At least I'm lovely.
Ready
Yeah, so we're going to do a little experiment.
I know. Should be fun!
Lets start with that one.
Okay next one.
Clark why didn't you say you were allergic?
I'm going to get an antihistamine.
Booth, did you find it?
Dr.B!
Booth, do you have anything?
We're working on Fred Walden's remains.
Hey, I think we got something.
Okay.
What about our stuff?
You did?
Yes.
Found out what caused the mini explosions.
If by pebbles, you mean the rudaceous sedimentary stratified clast fragments, then yes. . Now, based on the amount of pyrites, I'd estimate the porosity at approximately 25%. . That's ideal for moisture saturation.
The pebbles, as you so quaintly call them, were all found on the same strata as the human remains. Most likely dragged from the m*rder site.
Yeah. All consistent in size and color.
I'll call you back. .
I found the rudaceous sedimentary stratified clast fragment mother lode. .
No... . Um, I call do-over. They're covered in bl*od. Lots of bl*od.
I ran a metal detector through all the crap we found at the bottom of the pit.
Yeah, technical term. .
Yep.
Hey, so I finally got through the particulates left behind by the saw. Three different organic remnants on the cut: a hooked thorn from the Bougainvillea glabra, a haw from a hybrid Crataegus monogyna and nectar from a Syringa protolaciniata. . Each plant was from a different yard.
Yeah.
I found evidence of a homogenous mixture of oily and waxy long-chain, which are non-polar hydrocarbons in, uh, this fracture of the skull.
How do we know you're not faking this accent?
N n n n n n n n nooo.
'Cause they're afraid of you.
Yeah.
There's a concrete base on the wind turbine.
Yeah, but he's a decent guy.
Decent guys, you know. They have a harder time hitting a guy when they're already down on the ground.
Most clubs have abrazing composition to secure the titanium alloy that's on the club head. I can check on that.
Wasn't a golf club. No brazing agent or titanium.
Oh. Ouch.
No, it's not the right lube. . The lubricant in the fracture contains hexane silicone, mineral oil and propellant. Same kind used to lubricate a bicycle chain. .
Bob Sayles was the head of the Neighborhood Watch. He's the one that distributed signs.
Booth.
We're testing positive for bl*od here. Someone stabbed him with his own sign. .
Okay, this is basically vodka with a very, very subtle hint of pepper.
How do you balance an archaic religious belief with a life devoted to science?
I get that. But what's with the "k*ll the infidel" routine?
That was funny.
Okay, I got one, I got one. Pit the all-time greatest Christians against the all-time greatest Muslims. .
Wow. .
And Angela noticed that it was a circle.
Also dusted with some fine powder.
Oh, I've got to. "We aren't in Kansas anymore."
"Tension"? Hey, there's no tension between us.
Hold on. Wendell said that it was totally mutual. He said that you were wonderful.
Not "discussing" you. Complimenting you.
Okay, fine. No more compliments. You don't look good today. Your smile is ordinary at best, and it is not cool that we finally get to work together again in the field.
All right, let me see.
Oh, yeah. It could be a lot of things.
Whoa! What is that?
It is cool. Let's do that again.
Oh, that is not cool.
It's Sheriff Abrams from the crime scene.
Oh, perfect.
Sheriff Abrams, it's us. Hodgins and Angela. We just left the crime scene. We're heading up north to drop off our stuff at the lab.
Yeah, yeah, I've had several martinis, some absinthe and a barrel of mead.
We live in a fascist state.
You expect me to just roll over?
So, uh, have we cleared this up, Officer?
What?
People have a right to know.
Well, when will that be?
Hey! No. Hey!
Speeding?
Just tell them we've got all the evidence from the crime scene.
And Hodgins. Help!
Yeah, and Angela had an outstanding bench warrant.
It's in jail with us.
Okay, also, uh, will you tell Clark to throw a blanket over my molting swallowtail caterpillars at 4:30, or they will die.
Yes.
Well... I'm afraid we might have to check out a little early there, pal. I hope that's okay.
Sat on? Slept on.
Tell me about it. Come here.
I'll give you a little rub. You know, work out the kinks.
Are you really that mad at me that you don't want a little massage?
"God" is a little formal. "Hodgins" is fine.
Cam! Hey! So? Did you spring us?
Oh, my God, he's getting to her.
No.
No!
Hey!
Ooh, close, but now I'm up 18 cents.
Nice!
Wow!
Do you realize how long it's been since we've spent this much time together? Outside the lab, I mean?
Yeah. Oh, man, this jail is way better than that cabin.
Mm-hmm. Keeping warm.
Sure. Let's, uh, throw some coal in that thing and fire it up.
It's not much, but we call it home.
Okay, it's amber. Uh, it melts at 400 to 700 degrees Fahrenheit--temperatures easily reached in the fire.
Oh, yeah, baby. Check out those tibial bristles.
Okay, you can verify with the Entomology Department, but I'm fairly certain we're looking at Nedocosia naiba. It's a fungus gnat.
No. This gnat would have had his last fungus about a hundred million years ago in the Lower Cretaceous.
It was probably an amber pendant from an ordinary piece of jewelry.
Oh, yeah, she's right. Hey, check out the speck at three o'clock. The amber probably picked up a piece of hair when it melted in the fire.
Yeah, but this one is dark.
You know, it's a little outside my expertise, but they look like bat bones to me. You missed that, Clark?
Yeah, but I made the call on a piece-of-crap cathode-ray tube while in jail.
What?
Another round?
Oh!
What?
Yeah, every day. I run through that conversation word-for-word.
You said, "All you had to do was trust me."
And then you said, "You're the one who isn't stopping me."
Yeah.
The biggest regret of my life is I didn't stop you.
Uh... I panicked. I lost faith that I could sustain that kind of happiness.
Kid's got the goods.
What we should have done is crashed right into each other.
The judge is a barber.
Yes, we will pay our fines and make our court appearances.
Thank you. How long did he say he'd be gone?
Please don't change your mind.
Yeah, did you get mine? It's Stanley.
Thank you.
Vows. Um... Angela-- or whatever your name is... I'm your guy.
Yes, yes.
I've kept this in my wallet since our first wedding.
No, we didn't go through with it. Where'd you get that?
Oh. Oh...
Any bones breaking off?
Here she comes.
American Revolutionary.
It was a common ailment in the seventeenth century.
You can't change yours.
That's where the money pit is.
Legend is ... Assateague Island is where Blackbeard buried his treasure. For three hundred years, people have been trying to find it. They've dug it out to something like a hundred and fifty feet, but they've found nothing. Every time they come close, they trigger a baffle that floods the pit with seawater.
This is the first concrete evidence that the treasure is more than a legend. I'll bet this is from one of the men who buried the treasure.
Pirate.
It's a pirate.
We gotta get out to that dig site and see what else we can find. I'll be glad to help.
Come on, man, share the wealth!
What do you think?
Blackbeard's curse, man.
Look at this. 1902. Two men disappeared while digging. Never found their bodies. Ho-ohhh, that's very "curse-y"!
Pirates aren't Santa, Zack. They did exist, they did have treasures, and they did bury it.
Who didn't, my friend? Who didn't?
What is this?
In the interests of being thorough, I need to determine if he died at the top, or died at the bottom and ... floated up. I need silt abstracts from both levels.
No, no. No, the soil looks like an odd mixture of clay, plagioclase feldspar, pyroxene. I really wouldn't trust anyone else to harvest the samples properly.
Wha - ? I am a serious scientist ... merely trying to do my job as well as possible.
I am a certified cave diver, which means I can go deeper than two hundred feet. I dove Mayan Blue, Dos Ojos, Tortuga ...
Once.
Well, then how can you say no to me?
Of course.
Avast, ye lubbers!
You gotta work on your bedside manner, dude.
You wanna go down, don't you?
You're helping me.
Gloves.
Yeah. I saw the pictures Rose took.
I'm going all the way down. What's at two hundred feet?
Well, I'm ready.
I hear you loud and clear.
It's warm.
There's wood here ... below the limestone.
It's tight down here. There's a lot of debris. I'm not sure if I can squeeze through.
Okay. I'm clear now.
Touchdown. I am on the bottom. Visibility is ... surprisingly good. Wait a minute - there's - there's something here. Holy-
Oh, my-
There is anthropological evidence which supports the claim that Blackbeard executed his burial crews after they were done digging.
Yes!
About fifty feet down the shaft is a layer of blue putty consisting of silicone and clay. It could be used to form a watertight seal.
I took samples of the same blue clay between 200 and 207 feet. Something is buried down there.
The silt in his throat and lungs confirms he was k*ll at the top of the shaft.
The periosteal surface on the phalanx doesn't have any ingrained particulates that I can recover.
I wonder if there was gold dust on it.
You're not curious?
Any regrets?
Yeah.
Hey, not if we find something, huh?
Tell you what, I'd be down in that shaft right now if Big Brother didn't have the minimum time requirement between dives.
Thanks for that. I guess it's all right to tell you ... the bones were planted. You don't seem surprised.
Hey, I'm not F.B.I. I'm just a scientist.
Hey, I'm an expert in silt, plants and insects. That's right. I got three doctorates.
When you got three doctorates and you tell the F.B.I. you need more samples, who's gonna argue? One doctorate ... ... yeah, maybe they argue, but ... three?
I could use your help, man.
Hey, like I said, I AM the bug man.
Three degrees. Just doing some research. I am telling you, salted or not, there is something at the bottom of that shaft.
The bones were lying on wood. I want to see what's underneath.
Hey. All for one and one for all, right?
Yeah, they were always "piratey" to me.
Let's do it.
You receiving?
Man, it's muddy today.
Yo ho ho, and a bottle of rum ... DANE: Hey, don't conjure up any ghosts, Doc. There's too many down there already waiting to claim your ass.
Ghosts. Right.
How far down am I?
Hey, Dane? I can't read my depth display.
Hey, is somethin' goin' on? Is there annny-body up there? Why don't you answer me?
If you can hear me, tug on the air hose. I feel a blast of cold water. It's either a spring or some kind of conduit from the ocean. It's clear, clean water, so visibility is better.
Dane, can you hear me, man? I am on the bottom.
I'm gonna need some more slack in the line, Dane. What's goin' on? I'll get a sample. I can see where the shaft wall has collapsed before. Oh, my God.
Holy sh- Damn! Can you see this, Dane?
Dane! Can you see this, man?
This is real! It's a big -
An original Breen-984 half doubloon, designed by Ephraim Brasher, engraved by Ephraim Brasher. And - hold your breath, gentlemen and ladies - two hundred and four grains.
There won't be any more.
I was down there. It's not gonna give it up that easily.
He's not happy.
Arrrgh, matey!
No bugs or larvae, but that's something I'll just have to live with.
I have something for you.
Hey, Angie, you ready to go to lunch?
Vincent, um, hey, uh, life and death.
He was the sweetest guy... with all his facts.
What do we do now?
Hey.
Yeah, that explains the gold.
Broadsky made his b*llet at a location near the ocean where produce is disinfected.
Maybe he can't.
Hold on.
Yes! Okay.
The sleeping bag might help us, but I doubt it.
You can say that again.
The wasp's nest from the skull is over a year old.
No, she meant "calling."
Your parents are coming, so let's clean you up.
So, the discoloration on the skull is not chemical in origin.
Down. Lower, lower, lower. Keep going, keep goin'. Aand...good! Oh, this is gonna be fun.
If we find any rope or duct tape on the body, I'd say there's a good chance.
And two-thirds full makes it about 180... putting this guy somewhere in the 160-pound weight class.
I'll start separating all things chemical from organic.
I've isolated our corrosive culprits. Sodium hypochlorite, calcium hypochlorite, and hydrochloric acid.
Is that what this is?
Braided gold and platinum. Preserved by true love, no doubt.
I can think of ways. Of course, by juggles, I mean quite literally-
I'll save you a seat.
So proud. Wait, does he mean out? In the world?
Well, having finally hit the very bottom of the tub, I found it plugged with a ceramic stopper, which I lifted and viola. What do you make of this?
Man, what I would've given to have been a fly on the wall when you told those wives.
So I hear you're back with your ex.
Your son must be thrilled. I mean I know I may thumb my nose at the hypocrisy of marriage as a sacred institution, but I think a boy truly benefits-
Let me finish. A boy truly benefits from knowing where his parents stand, together or not. Like I once had this dancer down in Miami whose stage name was Abbey Road. Anyway, she had a kid too, right?
Before you go, are we sure these copper bits are from the tub?
I think our vice president disproved that possibility.
Which given his condition-
What do they say?
I thought you were half Chinese?
There's another kind?
My hair?
Good thing. A guy would never be stupid enough to let it happen.
But comfy. Welcome back by the way.
Well after two days of inappropriate comments, you're back to judging me for gross behavior.
Good point. Maybe it was just the judging me I missed. Ah, the woman I know and love- in a purely nonromantic, happy-to-be-judged way.
These women.
I resent that. I'm out there.
Well how not stupid could these women have been to think that they could get away with faking a m*rder?
Yeah. A lot of good it'll do 'em in jail.
After trying to bilk the insurance system, they'll get nothing less than a firing squad.
Because our friends here caught them.
In exchange for movie rights I hope. You know they're gonna get calls.
And that fresh new book smell.
I knew him. It was Hank. Hank was a prince.
Oh, man...Oh, man, I still owe him 20 bucks.
There's Amy Valeska. That's Hank's assistant.
Really, now?
This is a sad day for all of us, but I think it's important that we remember what we loved about Hank, you know? His sense of humor, of course. He was always quick with a joke, good or bad. Usually bad. But he... Oh, my God! Uhhhhh. Oh. My. God, Hank. Hank is... Hank-Hank is...he's leaving us. Where is he going from here? Who knows? Oh. But, uh, uh... Oh..God... Hank. It's not fair, you know? You live life, and we-we... we die. And we don't - we don't love enough, and-and I- I got to not do that anymore 'cause I'm... I...I- I need to live and-and love, and... Thank you.
What-What...What do you mean?
I was moved, and, you know, um, emotional.
See? I was just wonderful. That's all.
Amy, you were Dr. Reilly's intern, right?
It must have been awful when you found him lying on the office floor.
Was he complaining of chest pains?
So, you didn't go to lunch together?
Mm, yeah. Uh, who was his lunch meeting with?
Oh. Oh, okay. Okay.
Okay, all right.
Okay. Booth just told me Brennan thinks Hank was m*rder, so he helped her steal the body so Cam could take it back to the Jeffersonian to have a look.
What did you find at the lab?
Tetrodotoxin does have limited medical uses as a treatment for some cardiac arrhythmias.
It's a controlled substance.
Fugu.
Tetrodotoxin is biologically derived from tetraodontidae. Puffer fish.
Hank Reilly had sushi for lunch at a place called Sushi Momo. King of the Funeral!
Hey, bud, someday you'll have your last lunch, too.
What? Wait, it wasn't the fugu in his hand roll?
Really? What did he have for breakfast?
If there wasn't any sign of poison in the food in his stomach, then it had to have come from his morning tea.
Come on. Come on. Come on.
Down, down.
Can you do this without me?
Yeah, he'll help you.
No bags. Cam found loose tea leaves in the stomach contents.
Throw it in there. We'll test it for the fugu poison.
Come on, buddy.
Oh, yes.
According to our old friends Diptera and Coleoptera, I'd place actual time of death about 72 hours ago. Also, I discovered soil under her nails, along with traces of Virginia nailwort. Neither native to the dump site. What's with the long face there, sunshine?
What about me? My girlfriend and I broke up and I gotta see her at work every day.
There was some light charring.
Okay, you win. Happy?
Found some running shoes in the closet. Soles contain insects, soil and bl*od.
Yeah, I'd like to see you try and get these away from me now. Figuratively speaking, of course.
In some ways, you're just like Booth. Mean that as a compliment.
The bl*od I found on the Booth babe's running shoes-- not human. I think our princess kissed a toad. Bufo Americanus. American toad.
A toad. Bufo Americanus. Which amphibian is down to one local population right here near the Potomac in an area which matches the soil and the flora found beneath her fingernails.
A toad, and yeah, yeah, that's the picture forming in my mind, too.
Thanks for coming along.
Lone guy with a metal detector in the bushes-- looks kind of creepy.
Toad, not frog. Bufo Americanus. And Virginia nailwort.
Hold on a second. I got frequency response.
Excalibur. I am the once-and-future king.
Stainless steel blade. That was new technology for the time. Edge is dull, of course.
Why is he all excited?
We could insert an undercover asset who outbids everyone for the item no matter how high the price goes.
Matched paint chips that we lifted from Sweets's car. Copolymer comprised of ethylenically unsaturated monomers containg hydroxyl group and other vinyl monomers.
But they weren't.
Angela, she cares too much to keep it all in the lab, and you're never gonna change her.
I agree. And in the spirit of friendship, if, you know, you ever...
The paint is from an early '90s Ford Explorer. Now, all Perotta has to do is find an evil Black Knight that owns one.
I've done every test I can think of on this sword.
It's worth so much because it appeared in the movie.
Metal. You struck metal.
So, uh, you believe you were attacked by an actual Arthurian Knight?
Sure.
Oh, yeah, right, hey, field trip.
Part of Sweets's car. Think he wants it back?
So what am I looking for exactly? Maybe the Black Knight dropped his metal wallet?
What we're looking at is flat riveted chain mail.
If by "real," you mean does it come from medieval times? No, no. But it's a very, very good replica, made of wrought iron. It's alternating rows of solid rings and riveted rings. Historically accurate, but the smelting methods for the wrought iron are modern.
I had Fisher do it.
The way I see it, Fisher's like a deep cover agent. He infiltrated the enemy to uncover secrets. In order to do so, he had to suffer a night of passion with a beautiful but dangerous enemy.
He's sort of my hero.
I got this list of items in the bunker from the FBI.
I cannot believe you are here.
Must've been a gnarly landing.
Well, yeah, I mean, 170-pound biker, a 25-pound bike, factor in the rate of acceleration and come on, I mean, it's your basic high school physics problem.
It's some kind of key.
Yeah, we scoured the institution's archives, and we pulled out memorabilia, devices.
And check this out.
We already looked in to having the marriage annulled.
Which is why we need a private investigator - to find the "husband". So we can get married.
The particles we found in the skull are pink syenite. It's the Cadillac of granites.
I dunno know. But pink syenite is relatively rare.
Dunno. At first, I thought it was a Brazilian stone called Sienite Balma but trace amounts of magnetite and this, this is crucial -chalcocite - led me to the Omineca Tectonic Belt in British Columbia, Canada - and voila!
I dunno know. But not a lot of pink syenite quarried in British Columbia has been shipped to D.C.; none at all in the last hundred years.
I dunno know, but I discovered half a dozen sources. A bridge, some garden walls on private estates, and an entire bank building.
Yeah.
There was no replacement for Zack. I mean, you know, he was good with bones. Excellent at math. He was pretty brilliant in making contraptions. And when our experiments blew up it was easy to pin the blame on him. In my book, all that makes Zack irreplaceable.
They only thing you can do is forget about replacing Zack. And find somebody who can just, just help out around here.
This altar is made of the same pink syenite we found embedded in Gavin Nichols' skull.
Oh ho whoa, 12th Century Calabrian? You know what that means? The Order of Alcantara? You people have no idea of the reach of the Illuminati, do you? I tell you what else, this whole bank is an original vortex point on the triangular grid, designed by the infamous architect of D.C., Pierre Charles L'Enfant; Not to mention, the way the skeleton is displayed absolutely suggest... CAROLINE: Okay, okay we get it. This is the lair of a cannibalistic secret society.
Hey you know what - you don't want my answers? Don't ask me the questions.
Can't this headman tell you who Angela married?
Of course it is.
Handsome. Why Australians?
Let's ah track that steamer down.
Not an issue.
You kidding? Hey! This is great. Like we are on some epic adventure.
It's going to take months to sift through all that evidence.
Woo-hoho!
Are you kidding? Of course! Come here.
Man, you look like crap.
How is this any better than Angela's sketch?
You forgot to mention that he was a giant.
His hands are like snow shovels.
Ha, ha look, look, look at this man! How hard can it be to find a guy like that? Probably can see him from the space shuttle.
Oh that would be great. No. No. What I mean is we can have him declared dead.
Too bad.
You, you know what else narrows it down: He's a titan - half man, half god. I mean, I can see why... why you've... I mean I totally, I do, I get it.
Do you?
Me neither.
Keep searching, Mr. Doyley.
Booth says you need me?
Ha ha huh! So suddenly you think my insane conspiracy ravings are legitimate?
Mhmm. Alright. Alright. Both the body and the silver skeleton are in the attitude of what the ancient Greeks called 'pharmakos' means 'scapegoat' or, or 'sacrifice'.
One definite possibility. Yes. Also the 'Rapture'. Now as I tried to tell you before, most secret societies have this figure deep in their origins. For Freemasons, it's known as the 'Widow's Son'.
A widow's son.
Or was sacrificed. Hey all the signs point to it.
Deeper that you can imagine. Probably get us all k*ll. Just so you know...
Yeah man. Be safe.
What do you mean? Dude’s an accordion.
Man, the Jaguars will not be the same without R.J. Manning.
Hey, R.J. Manning was going to be the next Kobe Bryant.
Nude? Count me in.
Dude, you’re not going home for days.
Dammit. I should have gotten a bigger turkey. Do you have a smaller skull?
I meant is there a smaller skull we can wrap in this turkey carcass.
Which suggests m*rder.
We covered a skull with turkey meat.
And we filled the skull cavity with a gelatinous matrix.
Gelatinous matrix sounded better.
Then R.J. Manning was k*ll by multiple strikes to the head.
We couldn’t find enough tissue for a tox screen because these little scamps ate what was left.
We’ll toss these babies into the gas chromatograph.
Yes. Any foreign substances in R.J.’s body should show up in the maggot juice.
Yes. Don’t worry, I’ll rinse it out.
Technical term is tarsus.
No, he stepped in an amalgam of fats, waxes, oil and calcium dye. Lipstick.
The lipstick wasn’t found on his...lips. You know what I mean?
You sure?
Oof! Wow, that's nice, but a little too concentrated.
Well, it's not a bat.
I can help you with that.
This type of polyurethane meets national traffic safety standards.
A zoo hater?
Oh, Someone's revealing their plant-based personal life.
Pets generally don't eat you.
There is a shoelace mixed in with the flesh.
Angela's taking a stab at celibacy.
But it just seems to rev up her libido.
Those aren't bone chips. Whatever caused the laceration embedded something in the bone. Look at the injuries near the femoral artery. It looks like there are particles of mica in here.
Perhaps he was self-medicating.
It's not uncommon for doctors to have substance abuse issues.
Hey.
It's urine. I found traces of ureic acid on the v*ctim's clothing. It was the pheromones you found pleasing.
Well, I assume it's tiger urine. The cat was probably marking it's territory.
HaHa. Celibacy isn't easy, Ang.
Sometimes relationships need more than just sex.
Yeah. Not too comfortable with this part of the conversation.
Yeah. You should join a gym. Go for a run to burn off some of your excess...whatever it is. I really need to get back to my... ANGELA: Urine.
Yeah.
Those white flecks that were embedded in the pelvic bone? They're polymerized hydrocarbon from the serrated edge of a plastic kn*fe. Seems our v*ctim was attacked in the groin with disposable cutlery.
Why? Make him bleed out faster?
Hey. Whoa. What'd I do?
I have information.
The ureic acid on the v*ctim's clothing, it's feline, but it's not tiger pee. Sediment composition and pH level suggest that it was from a lion.
Wow. Before I flee for my life, the particles I found in the wounds around the femoral artery, the ones I thought might be mica? They're scales.
No, snake. I can maybe have a species by tomorrow.
I'm going to go...now.
None in the whole park. There are tigers.
Tom and Jerry?
All right, now, this is the Capybara enclosure. Now, they use crystallized lion urine around the edges of this enclosure to keep the capybaras inside.
It's a snake hook. It's used for picking them up, but keeping them at a safe distance.
Where are we?
Who?
Aluminum.
The Brits say "Al -yu - mini - um" but it sounds, well, British. Maganese alloy. Strained-hardened and stabilized. Traces on both sets of clothing.
No. The inside of the vat is pure copper. Both boys clothing was stained with a sooty residue made up of lead and carbon, benzene and adlehydes.
Yeah. Particulates from lots of engines. Both gasoline and diesel.
Underground. Probably. That's where the Digger grabs his v*ctim?
I'll get right on it.
Regarding the clothing, every one of them shows traces of aluminum and sooty residue.
You haven't figured out the stun g*n, then I am this weeks "King of the Lab", cause I found something huge.
No....Hey Angela. I, I didn't know - that you were - this sucks. I'm gonna go, catch Brennan then bolt for the night.
Dr. Brennan. Dr. Brennan?
What happened? Where are we?
I'm really confused, what happened to my legs? Where are we?
Zack was trying to figure out what kind of stun g*n...
How long have we been down here?
Okay, So this vehicle is 6...60 - 60 cubic feet of air, uh, it's just 20 percent oxygen - two people - my brain is not working..
We're dead.
That one's a laser pointer...
Hey. We can read it to each other if we get bored.
Careful. That's 3 grand a quarter ouce.
Oh man. Something - something - my leg.
Is that terminal? I mean within the next few hours?
But...
More painful than now?
Well, there's nothing we can do about that.
Oh, I'm not gonna like this, am I.
Okay. I'm ready.
Yes. Just in case - That whatever you're gonna do to me sends me into shock - I might die. Upside? Me not breathing, doubles your survival time.
And..how long is a long incision? Wait, ya know what? Don't tell me.
What is that?
Here - just put it in the pages of your book. I'll take a look at it later.
I'm nuts about Angela. Over the moon. Stupid in love with her. That's why I bought her that - that crazy, expensive perfume. Man give you a bottle of perfume like that, it says - it says "I Love You". There. I said it out loud.
How long was I unconscious?
Better. Lots better. What are you doing?
From underground?
Direct current 12 volt will burn out the circuits in a 4.2 volt cell phone in a microsecond. Better jury-rig a resistor.
Might work long enough to send a single burst transmission.
What message should we send? Goodbye? Nice to know ya?
Pain. Despair - and a subsoil accumulation of agglutinate aridosols BRENNAN: Dirt.
I don't like the term "dirt".
Ash. Hints of nitrogen and sulfur
We're in Bituminous Coal country. Basically, Virginia.
The laser - and we need Benzophenone.
Three. Grand. that cost.
There's something you don't know about me. I'm rich.
No. No. You're - well off. My family owns The Cantilever Group and there's not many of us left alive. One to be exact. Me.
I need the camera. I know where we are.
This thing you found in my leg is anodized plastic film and coated metallic tape with dried out adhesive. I think it's a bumper sticker.
No. Like a prepaid toll road pass. Someone ran me down with a car.
Yeah, but now we've proved it, and I find that I'm really annoyed.
I've figured out a text message using 8 key strikes.
Thumbs like lightning. I can do it.
Yeah. Oh!
I think it went...
How much extra time?
If the ransom was paid, we'd be out by now. Why prolong the inevitable?
You have a lot of Faith in Booth.
No offense - and I'm not just saying this because you filleted me with a kn*fe - We are out of air. We don't know if our message got out, much less if anyone understood it and we are buried underground. What you have is Faith, baby. Sorry. The baby thing is a reflex.
I need the camera batteries and the preservative powder from your kit.
If you can perform surgery out of thin air, then I can pull a little thin air out of thin air.
Soda ash. Lithium reacts high concentrations of carbon dioxide. Produces oxygen.
Long enough for what?
They aren't actually bags of air..
Using the expl*sives from the air bags? That could definitely k*ll us.
Anyone you wanna say goodbye to?
Can this possibly work?
And if we're buried more than 4 feet deep?
Well, then we can run for Congress, so it's a win-win.
I already am. Care to join me.
Yeah. Dr. Brennan. It's been a privilege.
They..they let me go home.
They packed me - pumped me full of antibiotics - stitched me up and gave me k*ll, so I'm..I'm good to go.
He's out there, Angela. He buries people alive. I have to catch him. If I Can figure out the exact alloy of aluminum, then maybe I could - maybe we could. Plus the bit of -of - bumper sticker that Brennan found in my leg...
I can't sleep, Angela.
No. I mean. I'm afraid. That when I close my eyes, when I open them, I'm gonna be back in that car. Buried. Running out of air.
What?
Yeah?
Okay. You know I'm good for that crutch money.
All I'm saying is why cut somebody into pieces.
How did a bear open up a suitcase .
That was not a documentary, it was a cartoon .
I can sign for that. Where's Jimmy?" .
Is it too much of a line to say 'no, we won the lottery?' It is, I take it back ... just compared to you, Jimmy...you know ...
That whistling sound when he sneezes. Unfortunately it is too soon to ask you to have coffee .
Yes...yes...coffee is the third delivery capper.
Initial contact, me cute, light flirting.
OK...bye.
Where is my bear poop?
What do you think?
According to that Peruvian soccer team that crashed in the Andes, human flesh tastes like frogs' legs.
Angela, if we were a Peruvian soccer team and crashed into the Andes. Who would you rather eat, me or Zack?
What?
You knew I was waiting to see her again.
And you thought I was actually excited about excrement?
It's a piece of undigested bone.
Part of a tin can, less tin fibers, a kind of sporocarp. Here's something... Hair follicles, sebaceous glands...it's a layer of dermas.
Flap of skin with a tattoo. We need a tattoo expert
She likes me more than she likes you.
I made her laugh at Jimmy's third nostril.
We have a tentative coffee date.
Lovely. It's a sporocarp called tuber gibbosum after a week in bear poop.
It's a mushroom and Oregon white truffle. They're a mycorrhizal species that only grows in symbiosis with Douglas-fir trees.
No.
No.
Nooo....
Zack is.
Like the Indy 500 baby .
Yes. Did I miss Toni?
No, you torpedo me, didn't you?
You want a w*r? Fine, because I'm the warrior.
Yes. I shaved the truffle.
I found boring dust .
Boring dust is produced by beetles, which means the tree the truffle grew on was infested.
That's not why I did it. I did it to serve justice and capture and m*rder cannibal.
Now, I'm back in the game.
You should be on the lookout for a patch of woods that is infested with
Yeah, even more of the same samples. You know, in case we want to double check the...data.
God in heaven I hope so.
Want this settled or what?
What are you doing here?
Who wouldn't want to sign for it?
She gets it.
That is so hot
No, this is definitely hotter.
The water turned purple because of a bottom growing algae called lemanea. Something agitated the algae so that it turned purple.
Huh, well, average rate of flow for males under forty-five is what, it's 21 milliliters per second, so yeah, yeah that would be enough to disrupt the algae.
Nope. If you hand me those shoes, I can check for particulates.
I found coffee grounds, and sea kelp in the treads of the vic's shoes.
Yes, that's it precisely. Case closed. Also, I found a tiny fly egg smaller than any of the eggs of any of the flies common to where we found the body parts.
In order to answer that, I have to hatch it.
I'm an entomologist. I have to hatch this insect egg in order to identify an important piece of evidence in a m*rder investigation. Where's the funny in that?
Fine, if you want to make a change, you make a change. Otherwise, you let me do my job, and hatch this egg.
Huh? Try and figure this one out.
So I got you b*at, right? Yep, that makes me king of the- - that, that makes me king. We're going to get you out of here someday, Zack, and you can be king again.
Want to hear about the case we're working on now? Body in twelve pieces, and get this - no head.
What?
You solved it?
Yeah you are. Hey, I got an idea. I'm going to leave the case file with you. It's got all the x-rays so far, all the data. Maybe you'll find something we missed, huh?
Yeah, y'know.
My best friend is locked up in a loony bin, wearing gloves because he blew up his own hands, and he feels sorry for me.
No, I just thought it might stop you from talking.
This fly might tell us where Jared Addison was m*rder. Oh, look, look, look, look. Hey there, little buddy. This is a white fly. It only lives in very warm, humid climates.
Hey, Doctor Saroyan? I'm not moving into Zack's space. I'm not being difficult, I just, I can't do it. I hope you understand.
Well, if he were a normal human, that might be true, but...
Oh yeah. This is definitely an environment conducive to white fly. I'll start taking some samples.
White flies. I'll do some lab work, but they look to be the exact strain that I hatched at the lab.
It means you caved in Jared Addison's skull.
It's an indicator that reacts with-
Yeah, fenalphaline turns pink in the presence of potatoes.
Well maybe Wendell here missed something in the bones.
I just wish Zack were here, that's all.
Hey buddy!
Okay.
Well obviously we sh*t it down.
Femme fatal assassin.
Oh.
Arthritis.
I'm in.
I'm in.
I'm in.
Has anyone noticed that I was the first to offer help and apparently I'm useless.
I'm in.
kn*fe mark.
Ah, good one sir, very droll. Zack knows much more about this then I do but we weren't discussing a literal chainsaw cut but rather the pattern it leaves on the bone. Right? Zack?
Several distinctive ways.
Therefore, no Chinese chainsaw m*ssacre scenario.
We not only have to reassemble each of the plane crash v*ctim but figure out how their remains were scattered.
Now we've eliminated blades.
Never. Freeze. On. Me. Again.
We're going to do much better.
The osteological profile suggests evidence of post mortem freezing.
And spread over a golf course.
That's the spirit!
Toxicology reports came back from all six v*ctim. Pilot and co-pilot were clean. Our two Chinese nationals had elevated levels of alcohol and Sildenafil more commonly know as Viagra and our mystery girl showed traces of alcohol and cocaine. So will the cover up start now or somewhere between here and the State Department?
Eh, it's a foot thing.
She was hot.
Dr. Brennan has been very clear about your priorities on this, Sir.
Ah, he's having lunch with the President of Harvard.
They're scientists, this is a fascinating, scientific inquiry.
Not just something. Ta da! A frozen pig. Ha ha!
By feeding the pig through the wood chipper we'll be able to determine the dispersal pattern of the fragments.
Ready? One, Two, Three!
Yeah.
Look.
I'd have fooled you if you would have gone to lunch as planned.
I got it.
I saw you come in, Sir and I have an update. I have a list of possible matches on our Geisha in the sky.
We sent a list to the FBI and they're checking it out.
Amazingly we found a finger with a nail still attached and underneath that nail...
A wood chipper wouldn't do that damage at the cellular level.
Hodgins. It's Booth. The locals just arrested Jesse Kane for attacking Karen Anderson.
If the bones don't belong to Max Kane, who's our dead guy?
Sparks was in jail when Max Kane disappeared.
What motive?
We found it under the v*ctim's finger nail, like he was scratching to get out.
The door was way too thick for someone Jane Doe's size to break open.
Okay.
One man's security review is another man's witch hunt.
You know us all, don't you, Miss Pickering? Or is it "Agent" Pickering from the national security agency?
I'm not swearing any damn loyalty oath.
I demand a lawyer.
Why aren't you interviewing me?
I knew it. They think my dossier is complete. They think they know everything about me. Well they're wrong!
Yeah. I'm happy. Don't worry, I'm happy.
Chromosome tests make it male.
You should at least pretend to interview me.
How is that possible? No one from the state has interviewed me in two years.
Yeah. Right. Let's play it your way.
My cousin with the bad rug?
It should. It demonstrates a complete denial of reality. Appointed to what "very high" posting?
In what part of the government? Or is that classified too?
Okay. Okay. So you're telling me that my toe-chewing moron cousin was appointed to a secret post in a secret part of the government you can't tell me about so you compiled a secret dossier on me. But I'm the one who's paranoid.
What was the finding? I still work here-
Harmless? I'm harmless.
Well, that's insulting.
I am not benign lady. I'm not harmless. I'm malignant. I'm a loaded cannon.
I know things that would make your bl*od curdle. Including a formula that literally curdles bl*od!
She's wrong. I'm dangerous.
I have results on the earwax. I ran the particulates through the gas chromatograph. I found the pollen of eragrostis curvula, more commonly known as "weeping love grass."
Weeping love is found worldwide. But weeping love grass, that's in South.
Yeah, traces of automotive-grade asbestos. The guy didn't have very good oral hygiene.
Take me. I'll wave the lawyer. I have surprises in me. Tell that to your superiors at the N.S.A.
I'm thinking like work-bench in a mechanics shop.
Well, there's traces of lead and methyl tertiary butyl ether on the bone. The nail was bitten to the quick, by the way.
But there's lead here as well.
Way to go Zach. We went form genius to idiot in 3 seconds.
Did you know these guys haven't evolved in 360 million years?
That tracks with the bag. The degraded cellulose we found is a graphic novel.
It's a comic book.
Really? I had you pegged for a graphic novel nut.
Star Wars, Star Trek, Stargate, Battlestar Galactica.
His k*ll wanted it to look like a su1c1de.
What are you reading?
By reading a comic book?
You're reading Bugs Bunny, man.
Based on Bugs giving Daffy Duck a cigar made out of dynamite?
You have a problem, my man.
Looks like you degraded the bones.
Then what's that bubbling and pitting on the periosteum?
So, what? It's some kind of systemic deterioration?
What do you think it is?
Do they know about the leukemia?
Tough guy, huh?
The k*ll's motivation?
He went looking for a fight.
I only heard the "go get the bad guy" hypothesis.
Not the woman’s life, Fisher, just her body. Big difference.
Her clothes are shredded and covered in particulates. Still sorting through it all. I’m pulling traces to run through the GC Mass Spec.
A gyro.
So, ball’s in your court, Fisher.
It’s a bow. With hair. It’s brown. Natural colors. It might help Angela with her sketch.
I’m kind of busy.
Hey, I got a bow for you.
Um, the bow’s from the v*ctim.
How’s it coming?
Like it.
That’s a good idea. Just so you know, I’m cool. You and I, we work together, and... and that’s it.
Yep, two professionals.
Yeah, yeah, you know, and I’ve got lots to do. I mean, lots. So...okay.
What? No. It’s just... sometimes answers pose more questions than they answer.
Did you discover cause of death yet?
Okay, now you’re just a tool. Why are you here?
All I have are the facts, man. Initial particulate analysis shows a thin layer of styrene acrylate copolymer on her sweater. It’s copier toner.
She was an office manager wearing a cashmere sweater. I doubt changing the cartridge was her responsibility, not to mention, the toner dust was all over her front and back.
Huh.
Yeah. Yeah, there were some stains on different sweater fragments consisting of hesperic acid, ascorbic acid, citrus sinensis, furfural, proteolytic enzyme, alcohol, triarylmethane dye, a.k.a. Brilliant Blue. It’s a food coloring.
Before I can answer that, I need to know what it is.
Go away, Fisher.
Found another mystery stain on this piece of her skirt. It’s body fluid, so... it’s your problem.
Do you think I’m off my game because of Angela? Because of all this residual stuff between us? Every time I look at her, I still think about...
What? No. I was going to say something much more romantic than that.
Oh. Right.
So now we know v*ctim was on the floor of the copy room and that there were semen stains on the floor and now on her skirt?
Hey, uh...hi.
Okay.
Okay, you are not going to believe this.
I was wracking my brian over the trace analysis from the sweater. Furfural, proteolytic enzyme, triarylmethane dye...
It’s a blue Hawaiian.
Brilliant blue FCF from the blue curacao, furfural from the rum, proteolytic enzyme—pinapple, alcohol speaks for itself.
Given the level of fructose and sugarcane, it would have adhered to his shoe. He stomps on the v*ctim, and presto, her sweater lights up with more traces than a luau pig.
Thanks.
Hey, man, right? Hey, you know, uh... I think Angela and I are cool now. We talked, and I think...
...to talk to you guys about...
...Angela.
Gemstone is jade, narrowing down the exact type now.
Hey, grit to you - open book to me.
Seventeenth century Anti-Masonic group, suppose to be extinct.
Angela identified the red haired figure on the tapestry.
The Gormogon's believed that the descendants of Barabbas started the first secret society.
Which means capital city D.C. was laid out according to Masonic symbols. Now, notice the pentagrams in here over the white house?
But here's where Angela's Barabbas thing really kicks in.
The bank, where we found the vault.
It's an old mansion that's now a nursing home.
A mausoleum at Silver Hill Cemetery.
Hell yeah I do.
This mausoleum's been here since the eighteen hundreds. It's paid for by a trust. As far as the director of the cemetery knows, no one's been out here for a century.
Look. "Pater Mortus".
You know Latin? Dude... BOOTH: Altar boy.
You got a key?
Wait...wait...wait.
Can I do it?
Booth. This ones completely made of bone.
The gemstone you found in Father Cooper's chest is violet jade. The dirt contains sepiolite.
Both violet jade and sepiolite are only found in a certain region of Turkey. The Anatolia region to be exact. Legendary site of the Garden of Eden. And this comes from the vault. Guess what? It's the same stuff.
What do you want me to do?
What?
Father Cooper was a bishop.
So, let's call up every p*rn kingpin and drug dealer in the country. Tell them to look out for a lunatic with a napkin in his collar holding a kn*fe and fork.
We found another Widow Son skeleton. This one's complete.
Now, he's the master.
Kids got chops.
The Anatolia region.
The Gormogons started out as good guys, you know. In the sixteen hundreds, the malignant manipulations of secret societies like - The Illuminati, The Carbonari, The Masons, The Tau - were starting to be felt. The Gormogons championed the ideal of that humanity should be free of these pernicious influences. Good guys.
There are secret societies working today. It's naive to think otherwise. You think I'm paranoid.
Zack says there are over thirty v*ctim represented by the skeleton created by Gormogon and his master who has got to be in his eighties. And we know that there are 7 in the one created by Gormogon and his dead apprentice, including the violinist and the priest. Now my point of view? He's going after the Knights of Columbus. Gormogon is nuts. Dr. Sweets?
We've got the place to ourselves.
Electricity from cellophane tape?
Oh. Oh!
Well, we can always use them for fries.
The remains show traces of fresh water and pelagic sediment common to Chesapeake Bay. Grad student?
He'll disappoint.
I've discovered microscopic tooth shards from the Alosa sapidissima, also known as the American shad, on what flesh there is.
Yeah. Fascinating. Based on currents, shad populations, and sheer guesswork... CAM: Don't tell him you're guessing.
...the v*ctim died in the same body of water in which she was found, probably within six miles.
Traces of copolymer on the vertebrae, nearly microscopic. I'm chasing that down.
Does Brennan put "Mister" in front of your name?
It's her very subtle way of saying you're not a doctor.
Is there any way to say no?
No. He's locked up for the rest of his life. But we all still like him.
Are you familiar with the expression, "That's way too much car for you"?
Seldom seen bigger nuchal crests.
Should it?
"Oh, evil spirits come out."
Disappeared six years ago.
The particulates found in both the skull wound and the pelvis are fiber-reinforced polymers and hydrocarbon secretion of coniferous trees.
Fiberglass and resin.
You mean, could I tell what hit her fingers? No. It was either something that didn't leave traces or the water rubbed away all the evidence.
She'll see something you missed.
We found traces of enamel paint and stain filler, specifically Silver Neptune Mahogany and Lead Red Primer.
Or hit-and-run.
Yeah, from a wooden-keeled, shallow-hulled speedboat.
Someone smashed her fingers, forcing her to let go.
What have you got?
This is definitely the boat that struck Patricia Ludmuller.
Twice.
That why you ran her down? This is where you smashed her hand.
I'm sure we'll find what he used to smash her fingers right here in the boat. My guess is this.
Waffle-soled training shoes and a tracksuit.
And rap stars.
sh*t, stabbed but lived to die another day? Rap star.
What comfort zone?
He's right. We process. Booth interprets.
We absolutely blow.
Well, I mean, I - I finished the inventory on McKenna's tracksuit. There were flakes of tobacco, fibers from the upholstery of a Crown Victoria, popcorn, chocolate, a host of other wool and cotton threads.
Look, there were also, uh, cellulose fibers consistent with newsprint, gum from a number of different mouths. Uh, he had dried chunks of human mucous, a half-dozen filaments of nylon consistent with women's hosiery-
The rest was just waxy buildup from soap or upholstery cleaner.
Porno movie theatre.
It's okay.
Let me go over Cement Head's shoes, see what they tell us.
Methyl ethyl ketone.
See if it has any specialized uses. Also chromic acid.
Prepare metals for what?
I'm seeing microthin deposits of aluminum here.
No, it's more anodized. Vapor deposition.
Oh, that's so cute but no.
"Alloy membranes," "catalytic bed reactor" -
Yeah. That's it.
That is so hot.
That's where the President used to stay. - Yep.
No worries.
Bright side? We'll always know which way is East.
Oh, that's me.
Pop?
Wow. I had Roxie pegged as a cat person.
Alright, ready? On my count. One. Two... We're gonna completely submerge her in a bath of sodium carbonate, aqueous formalin and ethyl alcohol. Good. And somewhere between 24 and 48 hours from now, she should look practically human again. Ready? And, go.
I got the trace back on those red fibers you found in her hair. They're tri-lobal, two red strands, one blue strand woven together. Given the length and texture, they definitely came form an automobile.
Yeah, I'm running the fibers through FACID, that should be able to give Booth make and model and year.
Angela. What's the matter?
Uh, you know, I'm gonna take Angela for a cup of coffee, okay?
Like I told you, I'll always be there for you when you need comforting.
Potat-oh, potah-to.
What did she say? Aside from "So long"?
Nothing.
But it's nice every once in a while to think about the future.
Yeah.
It was a moment. A great moment, but like all great moments, it passed.
Anyone interested in our mysterious red fiber?
Late-model German sedan, Mercedes or BMW.
And just so you know, Arastoo is praying again. Either that, or he's doing a very repetitive yoga move.
No cratering under the car, so it wasn't a chassis b*mb.
Check out this plastic.
Guess how we are gonna track down that expl*sive?
The military built this to test b*mb blasts.
What if they get mixed up?
What do you... what? That one was mine.
You want in on the action, Angela?
Have a good time.
I demand another beetle, alright? Jeff's got a groin pull.
Yeah, what's break time at the FBI? Book burning?
No!
The Chinese used to execute people by cutting small pieces of flesh off their bodies. Called it the death of 1000 cuts.
In medieval Scotland, they'd tie a convict's arms and legs to two bent saplings. When they released the saplings, the trees sprang apart and the convicted felon was torn in half. Should I grab particulates from this?
Autopsy showed she'd had sex shortly before her death.
Why did he call you?
Wait. You're trying to save someone you arrested for m*rder?
There's nothing pathetic about pro bono work on a death penalty case.
Hodgins.
That's a fun factoid, Zack. Thank you.
Yeah, you're the one with the photographic memory. I'm the one that's good with the ladies.
She is. We do mostly forensic identification and reconstruction of discorporated remains. My specialty's entomology and particulates. You ever seen maggots? I just got these in.
What'd you find?
They're not as good as we are. 40x magnification. Well, that's not bone. It's inorganic. Mineral, possibly quartz.
Zack. When you talk that fast, human beings can't hear you.
1240, what do those represent?
It fits with the timeline. He's weird, but he's smart.
I got something. It's not quite so idiot savant, but it's aggregate gravel.
It's the same stuff we found in the shard.
According to the autopsy report, no.
These are slivers of metal found on the skull.
It's silt. I'm breaking it down. It contains traces of two chemicals.
It's pollen.
The pollen is from Spartina alterniflora, more commonly known as smooth cord grass.
Spartina alterniflora is only found along Chesapeake Bay.
Given the chemicals in the soil and the pollen, I'd say we're looking for a spot near the Rock Hall processing plant.
Okay.
It's a muddy area. Knee-high grass. Okay, go back one screen.
Bet I know. That's- lasagna, fishy rotten cat food and vulcanized rubber.
No corrosive chemicals.
Flatworms. Necrophagous flies and beetles. Yeah, he's been garbage for about three weeks. I didn't mean that the way it sounded.
It's organic.
The whole, disgusting, shebang.
The flower in Dylan's hand was a Rosea calyx - a rosebud.
I've been sifting through two tons of garbage, which you should ask me about.
Poultry skin loaded with garlic and chives, red beets, empty imported vodka bottles, and traces of osetra fish eggs. Put 'em together and where are we? Anyone? Booth should check the garbage truck route for a Russian resturant.
Hey, this schematic is great, Angela. All the pipes are numbered and located. Meanwhile, I have hundreds of rust samples and I've covered, mmm, maybe a quarter of the crime scene.
Yeah. On the good side, that is definitely the window that Dylan Crane exited as he fell. Leaded glass is a match.
What? A forensics lab?
Right. Yes, right.
Given their - their history.
Tension, party of two.
Great. Great. Okay.
Meet the English Alba Rose. Climbing varietal. Nonexistent in the United States. Some say, it was the rose by any other name Shakespeare wrote about.
It's what Dylan Crane was clutching in his cold, dead hand.
Wrong play. It's more likely he paid a visit to the rose wing of the United States Botanic Garden.
United Stated Botanic Garden falls under the supervision of the Architect of the Capitol.
The architect is also responsible for maintaining the grounds of the United States Capitol.
It's open every day of the year to the citizens of these United States.
It's over there where Kelly Morris is standing. Oh.
Well, hey. Why me?
What do I look like?
Hey. The United Stated Botanic Garden falls under the supervision of the, uh, Architect of the Capitol.
It's okay, we're just here to help.
How about this? Specimen 268 - "right corner of the room" schematic.
Oh, you have no idea.
How does her confession not include the m*rder w*apon?
That would explain the fingernail polish and the scratch but-
I'll do it. Kelly already called me a perv, so I have my motivation.
Which would put fingernails and rust in the wound.
This whole sexual abstinence thing is totally twisting her out of shape. Oh, here, uh, the staining on the skull was propylene glycol dicocoate, alkyl benzoate, and sorbitan sesquioleate.
That’s common theatrical makeup. It leached into the skull during decomp.
Looks like your puppy moonlighted as a zombie werewolf.
Spew. It’s very evocative.
I imagine they play that pretty close to the vest.
The cross is carved of 120-year-old black oak and was stolen from St. Benedict Episcopal Church six months ago.
Yeah, well the bones themselves were covered in a patina of smoke, tobacco, marijuana, meth, animal bl*od, semen and saliva.
Concerts are set up at secret locations, and then only insiders are invited.
Aha... well, the dried mud from the treads of the boots that were duct-taped to the v*ctim contained bovine fragments and infectious prion proteins.
A slaughterhouse closed down due to mad cow disease.
Like maybe this horror-centric condemned slaughterhouse.
The image quality stinks.
Did he ever bleed from his ass? Because that’s where we found the b*llet fragments.
There. He fell down that time behind the audience.
Right into his ass. That’s our money sh*t right there.
All right, now you gently swab the damaged edge of the bone, and just put that into the solution.
These leaves from Mandy Oh's car-- they don't match the leaves found on the v*ctim.
It came.
Sit, Sweets, sit.
Everyone ready?
Yeah, nice fangs.
What was that?
Yeah!
Oh, wow.
Okay. Bye.
With this on?
Oh... my God.
Mytilus edulis, blue mussels. Wow. Hey, they said this was for you .
Slaves were considered property. They were as carefully catalogued as livestock or silverware.
Yeah. Yeah.
Wow, it's some kind of organism anchored to the bone. Interesting.
Temporary condition, I assure you. All right, listen up! Pull any other bones with pink slime and bring them over here. It's possible that alien is an appropriate adjective. We may be looking at NTI here.
NTI? As in, non-terrestrial intelligence?
If alien life forms were going to exist somewhere on Earth, the ocean floor would be it.
We are looking at what could be a clue to the origin of life itself.
According to one theory, billions of years ago, organic molecules hitchhiked to Earth on comets that plummeted into our oceans, forming the seeds of life as we know it.
Look at this. Organism operates like hair follicles. Anchors its root system to the bone.
Yeah, for a mucus-excreting underwater insect.
Do you realize these guys could be harder to identify than a decomposed m*rder v*ctim?
You compared it to a Chia pet.
You're right. Because if these guys are new, and I get to identify them, then I get to name an entire species. Angelonicus montenegris.
Really.
If I pluck them off one by one, it's going to take a week, Ms. Wick, so what you need to do is stop telling me how to do my job.
If I figure out what they are, I can figure out how to get them off. Any more questions?
Aha! Yes! It's a type of benthic worm! See? Progress!
Ok, contrary to popular rumor, it is not my alien organism. Not yet, anyway. But, I have narrowed it down to a type of benthic worm.
Oh, you'd be surprised.
I got it! Thank you, Aquatic Nuisance Species Taskforce. A fine collection of marine biologists dedicated to making sure that if the alien ever shows up, jam it in an airlock and kiss it goodbye. Lost out on the name and rights, babe, but I'm a big boy, I can handle it.
Turns out our little feathered friend is the osedax mucofloris, otherwise known as the bone-eating snot flower.
Not kidding. Allow me to demonstrate. Voila.
Now, the bone-eating snot flower burrows into the bone like so : it cracks through the hard shell straight down to the fatty marrow, and then . Now, each female has maybe a dozen dwarf males inside of her. Basically, sperm holders. Cannoli? No? Anyone?
I figured out how to remove 'em .
I just needed to know what they were. Now, I know what'll eat 'em. Piranhas.
Nope! The bubbles agitate the water and encourage them to feed.
No. I have got a beautiful wife, a fulfilling job, and I just figured out how to remove snot flowers. I'm gonna go ahead and savor the moment here, Ms. Wick.
Oof! Ahh! Ha ha! Perfection!
One ulna, coming right up. Ahh! Whoo!
Well, I'll swab 'em and see what we got.
You know, I know it's one of the few areas of my non-expertise, but does it look to you like somebody attacked our dead guy with a grater?
Maggots are next on my list.
Still trying to figure out the trace from those bone scrapes - it's very strange and sticky. Three primary proteins, including a trypsin-like serine protease.
It's a waterproof marine epoxy.
Glue.
Yeah, that's exactly what's got me stumped.
After he was dead, but before he got tossed overboard. I'm on it.
Somebody forget about lunch?
Hours. I had a Caesar salad, with a side of Ms. Wick. We talked about Sardinian cheese at length.
No, these are amazing, Angie. You're doing a sketch for every set of remains?
You also have to eat. I mean, you're growing a baby, remember?
Actually, you're sounding like a mom.
Yup.
'kay. Keep working, I'm on it. You want a peanut butter and egg salad?
Love you too. Even the charcoal-y bits.
Hey, so, new developments...am I interrupting?
I ran a couple more tests, and the sticky stuff on the bone abrasions wasn't marine epoxy, it's barnacle secretion.
I think I know what happened.
Now, imagine this platform is the party boat, and I am Liam Moloney.
Right, okay, so, Moloney and Claire, they struggle.
Now, Moloney, he's strong.
But Claire, she's got rage on her side.
Don't worry, we thought this through! Moloney, he tries to climb back on board , scraping himself on the barnacles, but Claire, she grabs the boat hook .
Uh huh.
And that is why I sent the techs out to the marina to check the boat.
Barnacles grow at a prescribed rate. We dated these little ones back to the night Liam Moloney disappeared.
Yeah, and, these baby barnacles grew in their place.
Because this wasn't rats or coyotes or raccoons.
Computers and Pelant.
Yeah.
Seeing someone die, Sweets..you don't just go on with your day after something like that.
Yes, but you know, sometimes you can't.
I'm sorry, man.
Well, hey, how about you start by taking the afternoon off?
I identified the blue substance on his bones as a polymer: paint or rubber, maybe dye. That's why I'd like to go searching for rat poop.
Well, I'll need some help. You seem to know your poop.
Da, da, da, da, da. I'm on page three so far. I've been busy with the m*rder.
Yeah, of course you do. Hey! Rat poop. Let's bag that, okay? There's our furry little friends. Alright, there's gotta be a rat's nest nearby 'cause rat's stay close to home. So, keep your eyes open.
Yep.
Yeah, still waters run deep.
Rat poop, Miss Wick. Rat poop.
Wow. As rat nests go, this is the mother ship. There's got to be some gift in here for us.
Yeah, alright. Let's start bagging some excrement.
Page 187. Oh, my God.
Page 187. Mind reading it aloud?
Okay, fine. Read it to yourself then. That's that thing that I do. Nobody else does that thing. It's my thing that I do. Right. It's not a well-known thing. It's, you know, my thing that I do.
You told Brennan about that thing I do.
It's my thing. That I do. Did you tell her that it was my thing?
Yes. Did you?
Good, 'cause I don't need her looking at me thinking about.. that thing I do.
But now that thing I do is in print and every guy that reads that book is gonna give it a sh*t. Oh, well. You know I got other things that I do. My advice: only sleep with guys that can't read 'cause otherwise, you'll never be rid of me.
I put together a time line made out of rat poop.
The oldest poop, containing human remains, dates from seven days ago. Now, I also found this.
Mhm. The same sub-micrometer blue polymer base material. Now, I'm running a scan companies at manufacture it to see if it's ever been used for amm*nit*on and check this out. Also found this.
Mhm, it's a piece from the sole of a shoe.
No. His we matched with DNA. This leather was found in a rat's stomach along with bits of the v*ctim. They were ingested at the same time.
Wow! That's a first. Usually I have to say it.
This is a Quasar safety slug. It was designed to dissintegrate so it wouldn't riccoshe after it hits its target.
We're not done yet. Now, turning our attention to glass fragments embedded in the back of our v*ctim's head.
Well, we're still not done.
Okay, so we need to find glass fixtures that contain borosilicate. We find that here.
He was was lured into this tunnel and was sh*t.
That's Aldo Clemens.
He was fastened to the table by duct tape, but he managed to loosen it.
Can I see that?
I'll swab.
There was no I.D.
Yeah.
I actually think the Vatican was in on the Lincoln assassination.
We know these vertebrae are some kind of code, but what kind?
No.
The C4.
Okay, we figured out what k*ll her.
Oh, right. Parker's been gone for a while, right?
Tony Cole.
Yeah, that looks like the typical w*apon.
Come on. I got the idea from our little wormy friend there.
Well, I'll tell you what.
Ladies and gentlemen, to the Founders.
Uniform is made of polybenzimidazole.
Well, he was probably trying to keep his other job a secret from his bosses at Duncore.
For a second there, I thought they'd made a break for it.
Yeah, a wood fire.
Right.
So, the wood sample that you sent to me from the scrapings from the wine cellar floor came from a deciduous conifer called the larch tree.
It looks like a mixture of acids and bases, further decomposing the tissue in some areas, while neutralizing it in others.
So I isolated all the aromas that weren't food-based into their own individual compounds, which I then reformulated into a condensed, more intensified version.
Well, I reexamined Chili's lung tissue, and I found evidence of glycerin, sodium sulfate, hydrolyzed vegetable protein...
That's what I assumed, until I discovered the presence of aloe Vera and coconut oil.
Wait a minute.
This is a commemorative pin from the Chinese Olympics
A ball-bearing...all this stuff is extremely common, nails, screws, bolts, washers, keys.
My guess, it's a USB drive.
I don't know...every b*mb who ever lived?
You serious? Of course!
Trace it's? What?
22 caliber
Yup Cut to - Beta Delta Sigma frat house ROBERT
Believe me, there was enough DNA on these sheets to paint a very clear picture of life at Beta Delta Sigma.
Yeah, and those two guys were sleeping with the same girl, although, refreshingly, not at the same time.
Oh! Lots and lots of DNA.
Yea, I found evidence of a vegetable-based Lanol, assorted liposomes, Sepigel, and micronized estriol.
From the stains positions on the sheets, and its shape, which was approximately three inches long by 1 1/4 inch wide
The substance appears to have transferred from the v*ctim's penis directly to the bed sheet.
More plausible scenario has got Beaver sexing it up at a different location, and then coming home to his own bed, naked, and I refer you again to the imprint.
An older woman, yeah, yeah, most likely menopausal.
Well, I got a theory, kid died of dehydration, forgot to replenish his fluids
I, uh, asked everyone to leave. Ok, now, I have installed four sensors in the wrists and in the back of the spine so we should be able to gage the height from which the v*ctim fell, within a few centimeters, after only a few trials.
Nah, it's just...last time I dropped something from up there, it bounced and injured An an innocent bystander, but nobody's here this time, so. Coccyx text number one, Dr. Jack Hodgins supervising CAM: No, no, no, no HODGINS: I... CAM: no, no, HODGINS: But...
Yeah, I got that during the part where you said no, seven times in a row.
He can't drink beer, he's Muslim!
I've heard of those people. They patch into electrical grids down there. Some can even tap cable. I'd set time of death at about ten days, when the Missing Persons Report was filed.
See the ratio of fly larvae to Silphidae beetles?
Why are missing pieces always the size of quarters? Why are tumors always the size of grapefruits?
A girl can't bang both sides of her head as she falls down a shaft?
Brennan mentioned that Harold said he had given the v*ctim something he wished he hadn't. Could this have been it?
Roman numerals.
You show it to him.
Crazy mole-guy gave something to the v*ctim he thinks could have gotten her k*ll. Of course, he's crazy.
I was hoping you'd take possession of this piece of evidence.
Well, you don't really need me for this.
Why?
Nope.
It's Hodgins. Your v*ctim was in some other tunnel system before she died.
Her clothing shows traces of diamond dust. That suggests a much older system of tunnels than the one in which you found her. Industrial diamonds were used in blast-hole drilling in the 19th century.
Good job, Hodgins. What would we do without you?
Buttons. Bone for the shirt, pewter for the pants.
These pellets are commonly known as bird sh*t. Pellet size 12, 0.73 inches in diameter, made of lead.
Came down with an accomplice. I apologize. I've been hanging around Booth way too much.
Wow.
Probably some local farmer kid who got drunk, wandered into the field and just passed out.
Yeah, true, but if you're so sensitive to cold the field isn't necessarily the best place to hit the hay.
That's because the architect of D.C., Pierre L'Enfant, was a Freemason, and the rhombus is a key symbol.
Acacia trees.
Is that her?
Okay, everyone, the man of the hour.
Hey, remember the time he hydroplaned across the Atlantic with those half-naked supermodels?
I mean, at least hypothermia is a relatively painless way to go.
Dehydrated?
Oh, wow.
Oh, please don't tell me you made out with Barstool also?
I'd like those clothes as soon as I can get 'em. Lots of crusty bugs and slime.
Her hair was bleached?
Don't you?
The scrapings that I took from the cheek and eye socket contain propylene glycol, fragrance, dyes, and lanolin.
What the hell happened to this kid?
What is she, a midget stripper?
I think the alkaloids would make the color brighter.
What if I try to jump off before the swing stops?
I miss that feeling.
I found fragments of steel in the v*ctim's jacket. There was also an excessive amount of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are found in soot, pesticides, creosotes -- -- roofing tar.
Yeah. Interesting coincidence, huh?
About this?
How's it going?
Could you ever do this to your kid?
Uh, yeah, yeah. This was in the zippered pocket of what was left of Brianna's jacket. It's treated cellulose. Can you get any details from it?
Listen ... Angela.
We've been ... dancing around this for months now ... ... like two pieces of neodymium caught in a magnetic field.
Yeah. But if the field weakens, they fly apart. Which is why I thought they should go on a date.
You can't say that you don't feel it.
Come on, we owe it to ourselves to give it a try.
Angela ... ANGELA: I'm sorry.
You're making a mistake ...
Sure.
Behold the keepers of mystery - the Sphecius speciosus and his trusty sidekick, the Tibicen lyricen.
If Brianna Swanson was kidnapped, they didn't take her far. The presence of these two species together suggests that she died within a one-mile radius of the hotel where she disappeared.
Yeah.
I think her body was jammed into a storm culvert for over a month, until those thunderstorms two weeks ago --
FBI forensics should check out the culverts and drains large enough for a nine-year-old girl around the hotel.
Hey. Don't come around again looking for a second chance. That was a one-time offer, baby.
No. What?
No. N-no, no. Not -- not really. I mean, it never occurred to me that y-you would -- -- Okay, now you talk.
Tonight?
I don't wanna give you time to change your mind. What do you wanna do?
Thank you.
Not the shoes.
First, the caps are plasticized chrome, not stainless steel.
You do it.
Because I ... have a date.
Here's the thing, Angela. I know you've been out with a lot of guys.
Yeah. So imagine the pressure to come up with a date that neither one of us has ever been on before.
I remember what you said ... about how you used to feel on a swing.
Put your head back. Put your head back.
Head back! Head back!
No, don't. You all right?
Yeah?
It was fun.
Really?
You know, I had a little dream about it last night.
Yeah. It ended well, too.
But you know what? You look much better here.
I wouldn't do that.
Not yet.
There were remnants of bl*od on the medal before I cleaned it. I'm waiting to see if it belongs to Brianna Swanson.
Wanna hear about the steel?
Dragged. Wanna hear about the steel?
Remember the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons I talked about?
Turns out that they weren't from roofing tar. They were from asphalt.
Exactly. Wanna hear about the steel?
It wasn't from work boots. It is the exact same steel used in tap shoes.
Hi.
We didn't really get a chance to talk today.
That whole ... swing thing -- wasn't -- good enough, right? 'Cause I can do better.
It was?
Really. Great. That's great. Thanks.
That's not great. How can a great date be not great?
I don't like the way it was before.
It'll go really, really wrong.
Sure, friends.
Just one question. What if it doesn't end that way? What if it doesn't go wrong?
Pelant was there.
Wow.
Maggots place time of death somewhere between 48 and 72 hours.
In this case it was a gold wood chipper. This looks like gold.
What is this?
I'll find out if these are really gold flecks and pearl fragments.
I have got an absolutely fascinating clue to tell you.
What? Why?
The pearl we found in the v*ctim wasn't a pearl. Why do I have to leave town?
carbonaceous chondrites. It's what meteorites are made out of. You're father blames me for our break-up?
Uh-huh.
You staying or going?
Mathematics is theory. This is a real world recreation.
Oh.
I'm all set up and everything.
FIRE IN THE HOLE!!
We're okay. Everything's fine.
131 pounds. Well, it matches the v*ctim stats.
There are not other particulates outside of the gold flecks and meteorite.
That we aren't allowed in the same room without supervision.
You know you're here which counts for supervision so I'll leave.
Ladies and gentleman. What I propose to show you today is how our v*ctim's skeletal structure came to shatter into tiny bits. Mr. Nigel-Murray.
Liquid nitrogen freezes at 63 degrees Kelvin which is -210 degrees Celsius or -346 degrees Farenheit.
Shhh. When I drop this super cold turkey.
It will shatter into hundreds of bits on the concrete floor. Shards are going to fly in every direction so...ready? 3...2...1...
There's gotta be some source of radiation in that place to cause cancer. Someone accidentally irradiates this poor woman and then covers it up by freezing her and smashing her remains into little...bits.
You know what creeps me out? You know that way English people say lovah.
The man is from Texas. He told me that if I messed up...uh, I don't remember what he said exactly but he mentioned the key G-demolish and it sounded pretty bad.
Thank you, Vincent. I feel much better now.
Uh thanks. But, uh, too late.
The discoloration in the fabric was not radioactive but because of your suspicion I tested for daughter isotopes.
Daughter isotopes are what's left behind after radioactive isotopes decay.
Yeah. A strong one. Is anyone at that place doing cancer research?
Yeah. Right. "To eternity. To glory. To the future"
Up and forward are only two directions. Science should look in all directions. You taught me that.
Every day.
Don't sneak up like that. I could put out an eye on my microscope.
You talked to Angela's father?
I am not scared of him.
Alright, now this notch you found in the clavicle?
I found minute traces of graphite, clay and co-polymer.
Alright. Say a fairly heavy mechanical pencil, right? To the windpipe, or the carotid. v*ctim dies, is deep frozen and then shattered.
Hmmm.
Has it occurred to either of you that this might be another v*ctim in the Widow's Son case?
Because the v*ctim was cooked like an entree. Same as that guy in Germany.
No condiments.
He ran a computer ad online, said he was looking for someone to eat.
Yeah, tell me about it. I have to separate and distinguish particulates and insects from the body's original location.
Oh, yeah. Guy ended up feasting on a computer engineer.
Well, hello, my exotic princess.
Looks like something from the Nitidulidae family. Where did you come from, you gorgeous creature? Do you have any friends?
Boy, he melted like ice cream on a hot summer day.
Wow. I'm finding a large concentration of bristletails and harvester ants dead by the v*ctim's feet. That is odd.
I tested fabric samples from the v*ctim's pants They were covered with chloropicrin.
Is a pesticide.
Put solar panels on my house. Compact fluorescents in every socket and still feel guilty when I use a paper napkin.
Wait, wait, wait. 118 square feet? Dude, that's smaller than the janitor's closet.
Our lives aren't only about function. We are allowed to enjoy ourselves occasionally.
Yes, finally. Identified my mystery bug. Carpophilus nitidulidae. King of the lab! It's an agricultural pest, found on pineapple plants.
Compost, of course. The identifying organisms would have started dying as soon as the body was removed from the heat.
Inside a large compost heap, as high as 170 degrees.
Hey, you guys going to check out a large compost pile?
This place is awesome. The thermophilic bacteria content is off of the charts.
I just heard a crunch. Definitely not plant life. I'd love to try this feeding fungi.
It would attribute to decomposition to the microbial activity of the compost pile...
Calliphoridae didn't have a chance to oviposit. She must have been buried in the compost just hours after she died.
Well, given the carbon to nitrogen ratio of the compost I sampled, she's been in there since last Wednesday.
Well, maybe no one's missed her yet.
Oh, you are such an angel.
Okay.
I've got results from the clothes. You were right. Same vegetable oil on both Frank and Emma's clothing. But I found a high concentration of methanol and sodium hydroxide mixed in.
No, it's from bio-diesel fuel.
Now this is something you don't normally get to see in the publishing house.
The jelly looking stuff that oozes out turn into the ootheca.
Can you smell that? Yeah.
Blue crab season. They'll feed on anything, dead or alive. Vegetation, fish, flesh.
I loved the symbolism of the red tape. Perfect way to dispose of bureaucrats.
I don't think it requires a jump. Just a little hop. Little teeny -
TCB's and lead we found in the collegian means the v*ctim from the North end of the Chesapeake. Probably outside Anapolis.
Just seemed right.
The tape actually managed to preserve particulate matter that was present on the body before it was dumped.
No. But I did find sand.
Yeah, but the sediment distribution doesn't match. The sand came from some place else.
Working on it.
Do you really plan on reading Dr. Brennan's book?
So, for kicks you read...
So, sex books.
Hm.
Yup.
I got more info on the red tape. It's a thermo setting silicon adhesive with glass cloth backing. Secures materials under high temperatures. Also used for electrical and industrial applications.
To secure cargo holds.
Got some phaenicia sericata stuck in the tape. Means she's been dead less than two days.
Yeah, it was part of the metaphor. The v*ctim were all corrupt politicians who'd been feeding for years on the good will of the people so...
But if the b*llet was still inside Sadie Keller when the body was dumped in the cage...
Yeah, well, don't grow too attached. These little guys - are destined to be snake snacks.
It's not like they know sign language, Angela.
Uh, found something.
mhmm.
Do you have any idea how tight a rat's rectum is?
She fed all of them laxatives?
Wow. New dress code? Cause I didn't get the memo. Okay. Sand I collected from the first v*ctim..It's from feldspathic rock.
Right. 60% of the earths crust is composed of feldspar.
Actually, it is. These particles are way to finely graduated to have occurred naturally. This is manufactured sand.
I've requested samples from every quarry that distributes to the DC area - see if that narrows it down.
Hey. Be careful tonight.
You have to be careful with fire ants. They're extremely dangerous.
As long as it takes to get every last one of them. Introducing fire ants to the ecosystem around here would be extremely devastating.
Yeah. I had to fight fire with fire or in this case, fire ants with fire.
Had to scotch it. Huge flame thrower. Dude, it was like Ghost Busters the way they all went up-
Same glass cloth tape used on body #3.
Like the k*ll didn't want to see his v*ctim face get blown off.
I found a quarry sample that matches the sand found on the first body. It was distributed by the Irving Company of West Virginia, used exclusively by country clubs nation wide. Only a few clubs in this area though so I've got a list.
For golf courses.
Ellen was hated by Hank who was also next in line for her job.
Thanks.
Oh. Oh, is that all.
Yup. Rockville Country Club. It is the only golf course in Maryland that gets their sand from Irving.
I think Angie's going to have trouble doing the facial reconstruction.
Yeah, except here the cheesy looking bits are flesh and the pepperoni is charred muscle.
Hey, look at this. There seems to be some metal that melted into the trabeculae.
No. No, not... exactly.
Yeah, we can't take him out until we build another dam upstream, so this area doesn't flood and destroy all the evidence.
Yeah, it's from the leopard slugs all over him.
It was testosterone that caused the bone thickening. That was ruled out.
Who vacations in the desert? It's like lunching at the dump.
Whoa. Angela.
We warned her about the sun, right? We told her to cover up, avoid melanoma?
Her boyfriend Kirk.
Yeah, yeah. Pupae casings, maggots, blah, blah, blah. Eight months of a year.
Angela, we're betting. Are you using Crisco or butter for sunscreen?
I don't get the attraction. I really don't. Snakes, scorpions- BRENNAN : It should only be for a few days.
Buzzards and snakes.
Dr. Brennan is not here.
Well, I'm still finding particulates. And since you're only Dr. Brennan's assistant without her, you don't carry all that much weight around here.
DNA results are in. The skull is definitely Kirk Persinger.
Also, the hair tests off the charts for lophophora williamsii derived mescaline.
Same guy?
Uh, I think it would be better if I went over the bones for particulates before you start your thing.
You're gonna have to do the boss thing, boss.
Even I can see he got sh*t in the back of the head. What Dr. Brennan needs is the m*rder scene.
We won't know that until I look at the particulates.
You could've told her it wasn't your fault.
I really hope this is necessary.
It's just...I like the guy.
We wouldn't have this much soap unless there was more v*ctim inside there.
Oh!
You got a sock, a belt.
Okay, I got a grommet, three nickels, and I am guessing a chocolate kiss.
Is there a father?
Okay. Down boy.
Dr. Brennan wants to have a baby.
Uh.
The grommet. Yes. Right. Mm-hmm. There you go.
A baby. Yeah.
You know when it doesn’t contain human remains, Bedford Creek makes an excellent cab. It’s very full-bodied. It’s like an Australian Shiraz.
Here’s a little pocket kn*fe. And some glass fragments embedded in the fabric from his shirt.
You think he was stabbed?
Man, I can barely get wine stains out of my shirt, let alone a skeleton.
Take a deep breath; I’m sure it’ll pass.
Were you thinking sodium perborate and potassium monpersulfate?
Fisher says this will remove the staining from the bones.
Yeah, the vinegar will obscure just about everything.
I got the results back on the inorganic goo. Contains calcium arsenates.
Yeah, it was on his clothes and mixed in with the tissue.
Booth said Holt’s wife worked with wood building playsets? Aresenic is used in stains and wood preservatives. It’s tough to wash off.
All of the injuries to the ribs and sternum had silica embedded in them which matched all of the glass shards found in the wine cask and on Holt’s clothes.
My guess, nine and a half inches.
Oh, I like the way you think, Fisher.
Hmm, it’s confirmed by the modeling. Yep, the shards of glass found in the cask have the same thatch design as the base of the Bedford Creek bottles.
We have all the melons already, you know, and the bottles...
We’d be remiss if we didn’t confirm.
Sorry, Mr. Holt.
Yeah, otherwise, the injuries make no sense. You’re sure a melon has the same density as a human head?
It’s important to love your work. Maybe she hit him with the narrow end.
Would you like a towel?
The Bedford Creek bottles, they wouldn’t have broken.
Yeah, but... these bottles wouldn’t have provided the injuries that we found.
The bottles were counterfeits.
Yep. Even though the design was the same, the glass found in the cask had a lower concentration of dolomite and magnesium dioxide than the real Bedford Creek bottles.
Yeah, exactly. Now, I also found that the arsenic compound I thought was from the stain contains parathion.
The only vineyard in the area licensed to use it by the EPA is Dunwood Winery.
Man, just when you think you know what’s what. Man, we can’t take anything for granted, can we?
Ange, when we split, either one of us could’ve stopped it. It would’ve been easy.
It would be just as easy... to begin again.
Wow. So fast.
Mm.
Hold on a second.
Yes!
Yeah, but anyone with a kitchen could have a meat cleaver.
What is it?
Let me just see.
You like it? I got it for Angie as a desperate attempt to apologize for what a jerk I've been recently.
Hey, by the way, I looked at the e-mail of the photo you sent me of your niece's art grade, but without the original, I...
So Oliver was under suspicion that the little tyke actually changed a minus sign into a plus, in order to dupe her simpleton parents.
Which results would you like first?
Recovering b*mb fragments... hey, check this out. expl*sives unit guys loaned me these magnetized gloves. Oh, these are so going on my Christmas list.
b*mb. Oily pudding residue indicates a homemade emulsion b*mb.
Man, you sure you're okay?
Yes, indeed, that is a definite chunk of Santa.
Hey, Booth?
Think I got something here.
Dude. Where's your chest hair?
I'm cataloguing b*mb components so we can run it through EXIS, the expl*sive Incidents System. b*mb makers' signatures are as unique as handwriting. We found this computer chip that sets frequency on a two-way radio, which means this b*mb was command-initiated, triggered via electronic signal from the two-way.
You know, if Santa had a partner, he was probably monitoring that frequency.
Well, except for that computer chip. The radio was set to 27.4 megahertz.
Hey, Michelle.
Mind if I steal her away?
We ran the expl*sive residue. It's predominantly ammonium nitrate. Also fuel oil, naptha, detergent and antimony sulfide.
Not even close.
All right. So, all we know so far is that the detonation pressure was about half a million pounds per square inch.
Until we find the rest of the manubrium, it's going to be pretty tough to figure out specifics.
We checked the scene of the expl*si*n, but we didn't check the cab driver, who took the biggest hit. I'll call the hospital.
It's even more difficult to work when you have nothing to work on. Snap it up.
Ooh, I think we got our initiator. The b*mb maker used the base of a small light bulb. Battery on one end, expl*sives on the other. I'm going to run this through the EXIS database.
I'm never going to make my flight.
Thank you... Ebenezer.
A guy named Malaki Wallace.
And using an emulsion b*mb with a light bulb initiator.
Dr. B? I ID'd the fragment of wire we got out of his rib. Booth's gonna want to hear this.
And the wire in his rib was triple-heat-treated boron/manganese steel.
No, it's a patented form of steel used exclusively in high-end bike locks. It wasn't part of the b*mb.
Hey.
Uh, you look irked.
I needed to do this so that Angela could recreate the expl*si*n.
Relax, I did not connect the initiator...
It is perfectly safe.
It's antimony sulfide. It's fine on its own. It's perfectly harmless. The b*mb used it in the detonating charge.
Oh, got it. It's her fingernail.
It's metallic and sweet. That is definitely antimony sulfide.
There's more than one kind of family.
Merry Christmas, Angela.
I'm totally impressed.
Do you believe this is Logan Bartlett?
Absolutely. See you in the lab tomorrow.
Hey brother!
Wow! What is with this scuzzy hellhole? And where is my office?
Huh!
It's not Logan Bartlett. Cam's bug guy - really not top shelf by the way - says that insect activity indicates that this kid died between six and twelve weeks ago but he didn't take into account the fact that the kid was wrapped up.
Calliphoridae and Sarcophagidae flies are present as adults and early instar larvae... you're not interested in details. Okay. Upshot: this child died at least sixteen weeks ago; long before Logan Bartlett went missing.
That's what I thought; so, I took a close look and I found...
Wood. My best estimate is hard wood: maple, alder or ash.
Yeah, that mostly looks bad.
Angie says the boy was Asian.
Korea!
The boy was wrapped in a kind of polyester fabric which is not legal in the United States; it's flammable. But, it is very common in North Korea; mostly in outerwear.
Well, a few lucky ones escape; mainly to rejoin their families in South Korea. There's something else: the twine there that's binding the boy's hands and feet? It's a very heavy industrial embroidery thread.
Yes. Also casket linings, moving blankets, horse blankets...
Oh, you wanna stay? Here? In DC?
A baby! Our baby! 9they sit next to the counter) Still sounds so weird; we're gonna have a baby! We're gonna stay in the States, to have our baby.
Oh, because I am so happy!
Are you kidding? This is the greatest news I've ever gotten.
Mind? Angie, I only love Paris because you love Paris, but... catching bad guys, that's what I'm made for. You're not... doing this for me?
The baby! We're gonna have a baby. I'm gonna be a dad.
A baby. I'm gonna be a daddy.
Uh... I- I have an announcement to make.
Yeah.
No, Iet-
Ooh, okay, how about "Hulk Bones: "A study on the skeletal effects of incredible physical strength." That's a great idea, Hodgins.
Oh!
Another present from the Bayou.
Well, we're all hoping for that.
For you, I mean.
That's what makes it fun.
I've been over every inch of these X-rays.
There's evidence of particles on the bones, but there is no way for me to know what they are.
Yes, thank you, Zack. But dirt is a meaningless word.
What? I never said you could. I'm not even talking about air.
What I'm saying is that yes, there are flecks on the X-rays that might be dirt, but that doesn't tell us anything.
Is it sandy? Hm? Silty, "humusey"? Is it clay? Is it more organic than mineral? Is it soil? Is it pulverized gravel? What minerals are in it? Are the minerals crystalline? See, these are all details a person cannot get off an X-ray no matter how long he stares at it.
You mean me? In dirt?
Zack, if you are ever going to successfully mimic being human, you have to stop making everything about you and feign interest in the other guy. Zack!
When?
I do not.
You know what? I take it back. Don't take any interest in the other guy.
You know, Angela isn't that much taller than me.
We both like brussels sprouts.
A man can change, Zack.
I can discern particulates on the X-ray, but I have no way of telling what they are.
Okay, everybody, the word "dirt" means nothing here in the lab scientifically.
Healing up?
Brennan will be fine, Angela. She got bail and the m*rder charge won't stick.
Angela. She started to change the day she met you.
She sees how you do it. All fun and involvement and pizzazz. Big, you know? Big life. Booth came along and gave her the opportunity, but she got the idea from you. Brennan wants a big life like yours. That's how it looks to me anyway. But what do I know? I'm a bug guy. Bug and slime. And, you know...dirt.
So...okay.
Dark sorcerers suck, man.
What are you talking about? He put a forgetting hex on Dr. Brennan.
They put the voodoo on you, baby.
I didn't really mean to call you "baby."
Aw, Angie, that is brilliant.
How the hell did Brennan know where to go?
I don't know.
And you're taking us.
Heck yeah, it does. Nice. Avatar. You guys do realize that being this excited about a sci-fi film will drastically cut down on the number of women that will sleep with us.
Yeah, yeah. Hats off to the guy, huh?
Does Dr. Brennan know you're soaking the body in beer?
Yeah. Yeah, it b*at being scrapped or eaten by beetles.
So, hey, Fisher. How long does this thing take to marinate?
Okay, good. Both of you - come with me.
This is 2D. 3D is gonna blow your mind. Oh, one of us needs to be in line right now.
Angela. This is so much more than a movie.
Yup.
Yo.
Fisher just called from the movie line. He's gotta get back to the lab so you have to relieve him because I can't.
Sweets, I'm knee-deep in larvae and dicotyledons here.
Sweets! Don't -
Okay.
This is it. This is it. This is all I've got so far.
No. All the insects had antemortem burns, which means they flew into the oil while it was cooking.
So, I assumed that the fragment of the cricket exoskeleton from the skull wound trace had migrated into the skull from the grease but definitely uncooked which means my three mysterious particulates were all transferred from the w*apon. Now, the exoskeleton is from the Gryllidae family, probably a nocturnal cricket, the graminoid seed is from a fescue grass and I thought the silk-like fiber was from a tetrapod but what kind is indeterminate at this point.
No. No. Why? Do you want me to go through it all again, more slowly?
Yes. Yes. North America.
I'm still analyzing what was in the water where the fescue grew but, you know, I can check that against specific water districts and narrow down the location further, so...
Uh, no. No. But I'll go find him.
Yeah, but you know what, the mass spec is doing its thing and the computer, the computer really checks all the districts so I'm on autopilot here for at least the next 2 hours and we know Fisher - how depressed he gets - so I'll go find him.
Fisher. There you are. Hey. You gotta get going, man, Cam's looking for you.
Hey, this is good! This is really good positioning here, man. Not bad.
Wow, you do this often?
Nice.
What is that? 10 cm in length?
Great. One of us needs to relieve Sweets.
Okay, Sweets said he had an appointment he can't miss so...
Yeah. Yeah, that totally works.
If the husband is a peacock wrangler who fights crickets after work in a creeping red fescue field.
Yeah, what I thought was silk turns out to be thread from the after-feather of a peacock.
Okay, look. I'm gonna go relieve Sweets. You just - if anyone asks, tell 'em I'm - I'm defligisterizing Tachymosis Franklangellacum.
Uh... yeah. Yeah. Who's your friend?
Hi. Um... Sweets.
Mhm. Mhm. So, does this have anything to do with Fisher's double digits?
Sweets.
If you need anything, just call me.
Bye.
You told me to get lost so now, I gotta test the tensile strength of the -
Yeah. Sorry doctor, oh! And uh, save me a meat tart. Bye now.
Brennan found five types of piping of the same dimensions. Aluminum, brass, steel, stainless steel and copper. I'm testing to see if any of them shatter under pressure.
Tensile strength is 760 MPa. So far, I've tried torsion, impact, and got nothing more than bending and denting.
Yeah, no.
We're looking for a more brittle substance. Ange. It's not what you think.
I didn't do it.
Let's just say he was trying to prove a point.
Why?
Who wants to know about peacock poop? Okay, all right, not the greatest opening but I was looking at this thing all wrong. I kept asking myself how do peacock feathers, graminoid seeds, and insect legs get onto the same blunt w*apon.
Sometimes peacock feathers are in peacock poop because they preen themselves. The Indian Blue Peacock, to be precise.
Pavo cristatus.
What if he didn't do it on purpose? Check this out. The only two places with Indian Blue Peacock are the United States Botanic Gardens and the Annapolis Valley Golf Course.
That would also explain the crickets and the fescue.
Who deserves a little love here? Huh? Little love? Just a - okay, if that's all, I really gotta go. Um... King of the Lab.
Why are you standing over here? What? Oh. Fisher?
So, he pitched his tent when you didn't.
Yeah, but come on. Fisher, he only ever pitches his tent once with each woman. You, you're the kind of guy, you don't just pitch a tent, you homestead the land.
Okay, Sweets. Let's do the math here, okay? Fisher's seven women versus your one Daisy. Seven one-night stands, let's give him the benefit of the doubt and say that he's had sex, what? 21 times, okay? Now, rough estimate, how many times have you and Daisy pitched a tent?
Woah. Silent math. You got a number?
Don't tell me. Is it more than 21?
Quality of the experience. It's much more important than the quantity.
We are going in. Yes.
Nah. Screw him.
Yeah, well, serves him right.
Heck yeah, are you kidding me? Did you see those tattoos, oh! Epic.
Clark, some lunch?
Aww, we are just trying to spread the sunshine here, Clark.
Right. Well, we've got your number so have a good trip.
Done.
For our wedding.
You'll be in love one day too, Clark.
Did Angela's ex get off okay?
You took him to the airport?
Can you focus on his feet?
I see soil and a singed sock. Can I have any direct access to particulates?
Why are you amazing now?
Of course.
Well I see no holes in your logic.
He's still here? Wow, that...must've gone well.
Uh, yeah. It's preliminary results of particulate and bug analysis. Now, I found microphytobenthos algae, epipsammic and epipelic diatoms as well as a Chironomus riparius, or midge fly, all of which were on the clothing shreds they sent me.
The levels of sediment on the algae indicate that the v*ctim was near the Henley-on-Thames within 24 hours of his death.
Okay. Just....okay.
You know, we've been doing an excellent job around here even before you showed up so regulate yourself, okay?
So, I found something very off that was on the v*ctim fulminate.
I'm a grown-up. I don't need a middleman. Now, with this amount of mercury, I'd think he'd been poisoned, but tox results say otherwise.
Nope.
And I also found phyllosilicate minerals and carbonic acid. I'm not sure where they came from either. Hey, can you have them send me more samples from the remains and the locations which they came from on the body?
Right, cause nothing could possibly happen without her.
Yep, sure, fine. I'll have our all-powerful leader send the request.
Or lose our jobs.
Can't you just tell her not to be so bossy?
Angela and I love each other and are getting married.
I think Dad wants us to apologize.
Oh, God! So now everything is fine?
Fine. I am sorry for being so cranky which is my basic personality so it seems stupid to apologize---
They found traces of mercury fulminate in the lower extremities, higher concentration on the patellas and the greatest was where he was stabbed.
Yeah, it looks that way. Any idea what kind of w*apon it was?
It's used in neon lights, batteries, by taxidermists and at tanneries, and in the manufacture of expl*sives.
Yeah, I'll see what he owns.
I know, right? I mean, did you understand that you weren't actually mad at Cam?
Yeah, not when they're supposed to be gone and out of our lives. That is not fine.
Why? You're divorced. Why aren't you fine with Cam sleeping with him?
But if everything's over with him, wh-why do you care who he sleeps with?
I don't care.
If you were 100% certain you didn't want him, you wouldn't care that Cam slept with him.
Saying that means you don't trust me.
I thought we did trust each other.
You really think that?
I mean, yeah, I-I do. I mean, I actually do think that, but- Oh, my god.
I don't know what happened.
Hey, you're the one that's leaving.
What are you doing?
From this century? I'm taking the clothing!
Please? I'm taking the clothing.
Yeah and a Mineralogist and an Entomologist which gives me the same number of Doctorates as the two of you put together because you don't have any! I could find fibers or-or spores or other particulates.
Yeah? You can take the femur and shove-
I found a sliver on the dead girls clothing.
Wood. I found a splinter of wood. Maple to be exact. So your m*rder v*ctim? Most likely stuck with something made out of maple.
Is he trying to piss me off?
I'm...in a program. Supposed to snap this everytime I get angry.
Yeah, so?
Maple? Maple! I should have thought of that. You know, I'm not so sure that a baseball bat attack would leave behind splinters, though.
Doubts! I have doubts, you see. I am doubtful.
What? Whoa. No. Wait. Work together?
Because you grunted when you picked up the bat. Brace yourself.
Nothing. The bat did not leave behind any slivers even though the suit Zack is wearing is much more abrasive than the cotton the v*ctim was wearing.
Yeah, anatomy's really not my thing.
Whoa, ho, ho! That one had some effort!
Nothing. When a bat is so honed in close grain, it cannot be broken on the soft tissues of a human being. We could try striking his head.
So I guess the baseball bat was not the m*rder w*apon.
Zack told me how bad you felt about boiling all the particulates out of the skull...
Despite the boiling, I was able to get microscopic samples from the bones hey, have I mentioned how excited I am to be working with you?
A '56 Bel Air.
What?
Tequlia vapors.
You know, I've always wanted to go to Paris with an artist.
You ever feel like you saw something great that almost happened, then it didn't?
Yeah, Cam takes herself pretty seriously.
Phew.
Hey.
Zack?
So, in addition to the bugs and slime guy,
What do I want to be?
Hey, it's-it's me.
Yeah, but then her phone would have rung six times.
Hey, is that what I think it is?
Man. Plural. They're everywhere.
Yeah. Whoa, Professor Bunsen Jude the Science Dude! Hey man, it is an honor to meet you .
Observe, analyze...
When I was in college, we used to have this drinking game, every time you said the word "Amazing!", we we... well anyway, I'm very familiar with your work.
Yeah so, observe. Insects, various mineral particulates, mucus.
Analyze. It's barbeque sauce. More specifically, a vinegar and tomato based sauce most commonly found in western Virginia.
Yes I do. Deduce!
Ah, it's gooey.
Okay, okay ask something else.
You'd throw it to a cartoon now, right? To explain velocity.
I love Captain Speedy!
Amazing.
Human ribs can withstand approximately four hundred pounds of force before breaking. Ribs one through three are the hardest with four through nine getting progressively weaker.
I never thought of using paint stirrer sticks in place of ribs.
I'm not gonna ask about the pudding.
Professor .
Captain Speedy would say the speed will give us velocity and force.
Wow . That's fifty-six miles per hour, which is 25.3 meters per second. That's not enough.
Ooh, how about a slingshot with a golf ball? Ready?
Wow, those ribs are really tough.
45.15 meters per second, give or take.
Yeah!
Yeah.
Should we step this thing up a magnitude or two? .
We have tried everything we can think of. The problem is projectiles either bounce off the rib, crack it or fragment it into several pieces.
It's like I told the Science Dude. We need something that strikes at more than forty meters per second but less than seventy meters per second.
Ah, faster than a golf ball hit with a three iron but slower than a rubber b*llet.
Whoa, you made a bazooka!
Man, I haven't sh*t a potato g*n since I was a kid.
Okay, loaded and ready, Professor .
Wow, one hundred and forty miles per hour so that's 62.5 meters per second, give or take. Check the playback on that.
It's a potato g*n.
Well, not literally.
How old are we talking?
So, freakazoid m*rder rather than fascinating history?
So, now costume?
Oh, so many jokes, so little time.
It's fine. We're all in. I'll be Edward John Smith for Halloween.
What's with the smell?
Lacquer?
The clothing came from a church-run thrift store.
You don't know that. I'm the bug and slime guy. You're just the auxiliary bone guy who dresses up like the back end of a cow.
No, you didn't! And that's what makes me, King of the Lab!
A loyal servant of the Empress.
Mr. Doyley assured me he'd be taking a personal interest in the search for Ms. Montenegro's husband.
You never told me that.
Good point.
Wow! What do you know about me?
You found something?
Why?
We want you to contact him.
If necessary, do you have a g*n?
What are you? Canadian?
Skin and hair removed from beneath Stella's fingernails turns out to be her own. Also, the lacquer used on both v*ctim is completely generic. It's widely available.
I... uh... I have... another bad image of how Stella Higgins died.
Tarantulas, to be specific.
That's a common misconception, though the lack of poison doesn't make the bite any less painful. This is an urticating hair from the Theraphosinae family.
Yeah. It's very irritating. Hey, little-known fact: tarantula hair was the main ingredient in itching powder for decades.
I was operating under the assumption that the mysterious spore was transported by the tarantula, but I was wrong.
Because there's no tarantula hairs on Judith Evans, but plenty of the spores and particulates. She has carcinogenic dibenzopyrene isomers, asbestos, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, manganese and barium and steel dust.
Traffic, except for the steel dust. I have no clue about the steel dust.
Most of those are heavy stimulants.
How did you get to and from a remote, nameless Florida key so fast?
You smelled him?
I'm paying.
Was it because he doesn't remember getting married?
A shack!
Okay, let's be honest. It's a shanty.
Verbatim means word for word.
You sort of said it twice.
Wow. The guy writes poetry.
What are you gonna do here, Ange? This guy built you a house. He cried a little bit.
We're gonna discuss this between ourselves, Miss Kippler. I'll let you know how we want to proceed.
I'm aware of the parameters. I told you all that stuff.
Yes, I'm looking at them now.
What I'd like is to look up from this microscope in about... hm... ten seconds and find myself totally alone and able to concentrate.
Oh, not nearly far enough. Not even close.
Hawaii.
The spore is Atronecium from the Haleahi Nebulae. It's a Hawaiian orchid hybrid.
How else would Hawaiian pollen get absorbed into the wet lacquer?
What do you want me to do?
Well, my guess is Hawaii.
No, sorry.
It's true. I love you, but it's true.
She got the good end of that deal.
All right, now, ignoring the Hawaiian pollen, these 126 sites represent loci where the necessary concentrations of particulates can be found: underground garages, tunnels, etc.
You want us to go on psychology?
Say, six hours a night.
At a maximum of two hours travel time. So, what, remove everything more than a hundred miles away?
How many does that leave?
No. No way the police can hit all those, not spread thin on Halloween.
A large oven with blowers.
Heated underground parking lots.
The Hawaiian spore.
Grinding, drilling, abrading.
Train wheels.
Okay, intuitive leap. When a train turns, it grinds the rails, creates a steel dust.
Wow.
Hey, where you going?
Hod-gins. Were you just talking to Angela?
Okay. Enough with that now. Quit trying to drive a wedge.
What am I?
Your job is to help me and Angela to be together.
They go back?
And you think Angela should go back to her husband?
Even after you practically threw him at her?
Thank you.
You got off easy, kid.
That's tough to make out.
Hey.
My money's on the two meters across from the check-cashing place.
That's Freeman's girlfriend.
Yeah.
Cool.
Oh, it can't be a coincidence that he's here.
Particulates embedded in the remains are a combination of glass, wood splinters, plaster and drywall.
Mad b*mb assassin-waitress?
I'm running chemiluminescence tests now to get a chemical fingerprint and then chromatography to see what triggered the blast.
Hey, can you upload the pictures from this camera?
What kind of guy do you think I am?
They're pictures of the hotel room. I went there to collect some samples. Yeah, see...the heat blast deposited the first layer of residue on the walls-hydrocarbons.
Yep, lawyer two...I had to use an electron capture detector to identify. It was toluene and benzene-oxidized paint-which just exploded from the cans.
More accurately a fire, then an expl*si*n. But get this...I found a patch of wall with only oxidized paint on it. Basically a shadow. See, something was between the wall and the fire, then was gone when the expl*si*n occurred. Think you can figure out what it was?
Cool. I also found these blobs of melted something .
What cast the shadow?
That's a person.
And Lisa Winokur was only 5 foot 4.
Oh, I could kiss you.
I'll tell Booth that the b*mb is alive and is six feet tall.
The FBI couldn't find any evidence of an expl*sive charge.
High volume, low pressure. So you can see where this is going.
A fire was set. The question is, given these ingredients, would there be a secondary expl*si*n?
Relax, a little pop. This blast wall Zack built-it's merely a precaution .
All right, I'll ignite the alcohol.
Fine, ready? Igniting the alcohol.
Woah!
I'm ok, I'm all right. Come on.
You know what that proves?
Most likely, somebody k*ll Lisa Winokur then started a fire to cover up their crime.
Onyx, peridot and Peruvian opal. Probably jewelry. It's an unusual combination, very expensive.
Angela found a jeweler named Lawrence Melvoy who works in this stuff.
Yeah, yeah .
Brought you some coffee. It's late.
Yeah, the good stuff too. Unwound filament, probably Chinese. None of this carded, combed or spun stuff. And definitely not nubbly.
What?
That's Antonio two hours before the expl*si*n.
I...I know something. And when you know it, you should know that I know. But I don't feel we can discuss it until you, you know, know it independently from me.
You called it, baby. Man of odd enthusiasms.
Bugs, slime, particulates. What's your poison?
You told me not to say anything.
Just one. Full court press, no holds barred, maximum effort?
That's what she used to strangle Lisa Winokur.
Oh, yeah, baby. That's what I'm talking about.
Hey, love is in the purified and ionized lab air. Why should we resist?
It looks like a cleaver.
Oh!
Hey.
That's it. That's Anna.
What are you saying?
The sticky stuff on the finger turns out to be sap from a flowering Japanese Cherry.
I know you from somewhere.
Because I was a kid.
No, I did not. The lemon he sold me broke down after a week.
The nest was made by a corvus brachyrhynchos. The American crow.
A crow will seldom stray more than twelve miles from its nest.
How do you know?
I'd say "King of the Lab" but... that just depresses me.
Bull penis.
The fanny pack had dandruff-sized flakes of bull penis in it. Why are you spying on me?
You got the dupe part right. Freeze dried bovine phallus.
Yeah, the problem isn't finding you-it's avoiding you. Hm.
I wasn't looking for saliva. I found it. Giant difference.
There was enough saliva in the wounds to run a DNA profile.
A fraudulent used car salesman.
I ran the standard eight nuclear markers for canids... BOOTH: Canids? What's that, like some kind of bug?
Canis lupus familiaris. See how annoying that interrupting know-it-all used car salesman thing can be?
City police found the vet's car. A forensics crew is going through it now. Booth wanted me to make sure they didn't screw things up. Hey, deal with it.
Yeah, well we're finding gobs of dried bl*od.
Don't listen to him. You'll end up buying this blood-soaked heap for three times its value.
You ever think this vet didn't live up to your high standards?
I found... Excuse me. The crack FBI team found a prescription bottle of arithromyacin.
Bottle reads "Donald Timmons."
Wow, that is an absolutely wonderful idea that could only have sprung from a time-tempered mind of a man with your life's experience ripping off unsuspecting car enthusiasts.
Back to this, are we? You staring at me?
About me?
I'm not a trained psychologist, like you, but that sounds like a good thing. Dr. Saroyan, I've found something important I need to show you.
Less paranoid and less vain. Again, that sounds like a good thing.
I'd rather drive a motorcycle full speed into a bridge abutment.
No, I'm more homicidal in nature.
Oh, do you mind? I have work to do.
Oh, uh, I found some particulates that the geniuses at FBI forensics missed.
Crushed exoskeletons of copeopods and other crustaceans.
It worked, didn't it?
Why?
Well, we did our best. Next case.
Alright, well, I found crustaceous material in the v*ctim's car. It's an antifungal treatment used on Astroturf.
So, it's Astroturf.
You're a genius.
Yeah, flashy crap you can sell to a gullible kid.
I was twenty years old.
You know... I'm sorry. I just... I've just been having a lot of problems recently.
My best friend who used to work here with me, he got himself into a lot of trouble. I really miss the guy.
Yeah, I do. I do feel responsible.
Of course not, I'm sorry.
Oh.
It's a computer chip. Pet owners have them embedded in their animals in case of theft or loss. But, you knew that. Didn't you?
The FBI can use it to track down Ripley's owner.
I don't know how to do this.
Mostly on my mind is I hate everyone.
To varying degress, but, um... yeah, yeah everyone. Angela...the most. Because we, you know, had something great, uh, and now it's dirt, Zack...for being such an idiot, Brennan for bringing us all together, Cam for making us efficient, Booth for giving us a mission, you for pick, pick, picking at me... Should I go on?
I just hate everyone. So, what? Intense therapy, heavy medication?
Are you serious?
Um... I hate everyone.
Did you get your degree on the internet? Let me see your diploma.
Except I hate them all.
Which makes me completely nuts.
My coping technique of hate?
So... are you, like, my therapist now, or... SWEETS: No, we work together.
Great, see you at work.
Yeah, this isn't our first rodeo, there, Dr. Saroyan.
Hey, got a new sheriff in town.
Oooh, this is a little slice of heaven. Cockroaches, fleas, rat droppings, bat guano.
Sense of smell--it's destroyed after a while. Must be a survival mechanism.
I did, however, find thirty-six waffle irons. No syrup, though, what's the point?
Right. Behold.
Hey. Look at you, all squinted up.
Nope.
No, not unless he was trying to hoard the hoarder's hoard.
What, you think someone actually tried to take something from here? How would he even know where to look?
Thamnophis sirtalis. It's a common garter snake.
Probably followed the bats, rats, mice, squirrels, and fleas. There's also extensive termite damage, which explains why the entire floor fell into the apartment below.
Yep, suspects. I mean, heck, wouldn't you k*ll him if you lived next door to this?
Yeah, well, you can put it over there with all the others.
Uh, no. No, that wouldn't explain the bl*od spatter.
He's back.
Angela's father. Okay, I saw him down there. I know you do not believe me, but I saw him.
Oh, God help me.
Hey, Booth, I found something.
It's accounting records dated four years ago. They seem to have been neatly put away. Hey, what is the traumatic event that turned him into a hoarder was work-related? I mean, remember Enron? Madoff? Those guys would've loved to have k*ll their accountant. I'm just saying, you never know what secret lives people have in their past. You know what I mean?
Alright, well, I'm going to crate these up and I'll go ahead and send 'em over to you and... You hung up, didn't you? Booth? Yeah, okay. That wasn't a scream. That was a yelp. It's perfectly understandable. This is a... crime scene, so, technically no one should be here.
You? No.
Anything for family. Dad.
Someone offered him $50,000? For what?
Yeah, that's what Dr. Brennan said. But she used anthropology speak so it sounded more sciency.
Yeah, there's termite damage all through this area.
You're right.
I don't think it's possible to tell if anything got stolen from this place.
Oooh. Ouch.
If it's any consolation, Angela's dad got cheated out of his car in a card game with some bikers and he wants me to steal it back.
Travails d'amour, mes amis. The things we do for love.
Really?
I'd rather you were Mr. Sneaky Ninja k*ll Assassin, but hey, a guy can't be picky in the sidekick market, huh?
Awesome.
Not in the least, but I'm so turned on by her brain. I'd like to see her brain totally naked.
Crap.
Okay, wait. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Where?
Okay. Window.
Yes. There are silverfish eggs here. So something was on top of these eggs that prevented them from hatching. I'll take some samples and figure out exactly what it was.
I took the unhatched silverfish eggs, made a milkshake, and ran it through the mass-spec.
Not poisoned, but rendered infertile.
Radiation. What I found were phyllosilicate minerals, along with some interesting metal oxides, very small traces of vitrified clay and Uranium 235.
No, something much more interesting than that.
Basically. Yeah. This is the Fiestaware Christmas Gnome, circa 194`. Now, the uranium was a common ingredient in the glaze on these gnomes until the Second World w*r, when all production of the red Fiestaware gnome was halted.
$50,000
Yes, absolutely sure.
Of course, because I've got a father-in-law that plays poker with bikers.
If Angela was going to the Maluku Islands, I'd go.
Hey, even if it meant my having to listen to Daisy.
Hey, I'm about to risk dismemberment just to impress my scary father-in-law.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Oh, I haven't got a clue.
Survive and tell the story of my love.
Nah. No problemo.
Just gravity.
Oh! A test? Really? You could have done this by yourself.
So you sicced dogs on me for nothing?
Wow. For real? Okay, yeah. Uh... what do I do?
The gate! What about the gate?
They are so gonna chase us.
I think we got all the fans. I really am sorry about leaving you there.
Oh, dude.
Is she still going?
Um, Angela's program recognized this as the one area of the apartment that was the most cared for.
Hey.
That is one weird, scary dude.
Not talking about that.
Not talking about that, either.
Not gonna touch that one.
No. We... are not.
Nous allons a Paris.
No. For a year. Because I have no desire to break in a new forensic anthropologist and an FBI agent, do you?
Yeah.
Not sure. But I do know that we'll be together. Ready?
Okay, I made you this chart of all the poisonous reptiles and insects, what they look like, how to avoid them, and what to do if you get stung or bitten, so...
Wow.
Wow.
Pelant is targeting us, we have to hit him back now, before one of us is dead.
I got his FBI file, and there are a ton of details about his family in there.
And she thinks they're really from her father.
T-A-R...
Is that the Bancroft case?
Looks like a home invasion homicide, right?
But Booth is pretty sure it's Terry Bancroft?
He was tied up?
He was stabbed after he was already dead. What ... what k*ll him?
Why k*ll him?
He knew his k*ll?
Yes. Yeah, absolutely. I'll ... I'll get on insect analysis right away.
Yeah? Hey. Good morning, Angela.
Uh, yeah, thanks. I'll come look after I get through the evidence from the desk.
Mmm-hmm. Yeah.
Okay, yeah.
Hi, Clarissa.
Can I come in?
Yeah, last time you saw me I couldn't grow a beard. I'm sorry about Terry. Makes everything that happened between us look ... CLARISSA: ... meaningless.
Just a lot less important than it seemed at the time. I got over us, Clarissa.
I work at the Jeffersonian Institution. I'm on the case. This showed up with the evidence.
If my bosses were aware that I knew the v*ctim, or his wife, they'd remove me from the investigation. And I would really like to help catch whatever son of a bitch m*rder my friend.
I can't talk about it, Clarissa.
Calliphora Vomitoria. Prepupal stage of the third instar.
Eighteen point five days.
Yeah, D.O.J. Forensics has new statistical models of maggot growth that pinpoint death within a six hour window.
About what?
The flake on the trachea was India ink. It came from this . It's a Scrimshawed letter opener, wiped clean, but there are still minute traces of Terrance Bancroft's bl*od in the etchings.
Your wife?
Why?
I thought the m*rder was because of the heroin.
How will you do that?
Well, you know, I'm really busy here. You know, the m*rder w*apon ... plus, we found a fibre in the v*ctim's throat. It's actually muskrat...
I'll ... I'll get my kit.
Muskrat.
All right, look, I'm sorry, but it doesn't change anything. Hey, this is not a problem.
Muskrats have an under layer of fur. The outer layer is coarse hair. This ... this is muskrat hair.
The muskrat hair was coloured with a new dye that's just be patented by a menswear company in Canada.
I told him it is not a problem.
Just because Clarissa Bancroft and I... CAROLINE: Whoa! Good night.
Clarissa and I were engaged. She and Terry started something up and it unfolded the way those things do. I haven't contacted or heard from either of them in eight years. Then Terry got k*ll... BOOTH: And like every other rich guy in the world, you decided the rules just didn't apply to you.
Hey! The guy used to be my friend, all right? And Clarissa... CAM: You tampered with evidence.
The glass and frame were evidence. The photograph I removed was not. I wanted to work Terry's m*rder.
I apologize. I will deal with this however you see fit.
Eight years ago, maybe. But not now. I've got Angela.
It's my letter of resignation.
I'm saving Dr. Saroyan the trouble of firing me.
Pie good? I quit. Handed in my letter to Cam.
I figure, a guy like you, I resign that puts things right between us. Do we need to discuss it past that?
Does anyone else see the irony here?
Can you believe how light this thing is?
Why do you know that?
Meaning that the burn was hotter than a wood fire and cooler than a crematorium.
I may be able to ID the accelerant.
Oh. Ohhh. Is that what you're after here?
You didn't disapprove of the results.
Not.
Hey! Soooo, you know that thing where you insist that all information goes through you?
And you send out little emails summarizing the case so far?
That's a very good system.
Because if you weren't checking, I probably never would have read the email that said BOOTH questioned a flying dermatologist.
I ran the accelerant sample through the GC mass spec. There were traces of tetra-ethyl lead.
No. Because if you hadn't been so a**l about the emails, I never would've known that I discovered something that wasn't merely interesting, but vital to the investigation.
Tetra-ethyl lead was a common antiknock additive in gasoline that went out with catalytic converters and unleaded gas.
Maybe. But for sure, the flying dermatologist flies a plane.
The v*ctim's remains were incinerated by aviation gas.
I was just trying to be nice!
How's that look, MAX?
Never thought I'd be doing another experiment.
Max had a great idea for an experiment.
You know, your old man, he reminded me why I got into science.
No. To figure stuff out in amusing ways.
So, figure out how big a wind blew the bones...
We put the skull cast into the wind tunnel, since that was the largest artifact on the tree.
The bone begins to move at wind speeds of forty-two miles per hour.
But, crank it to sixty-nine...
That gives us a fourty-eight hour window for Calvin Warren's m*rder. But, we still don't know where he was k*ll or where the body was dumped.
We can calculate where the bones started out if we can plot approximate mass and reverse the path of that nor'easterly.
Oh, most definitely is helping.
Now, that red X, that's the tree.
That's on the edge of Queen Anne's and Kent County.
Don't thank me. Thank Max Brennan.
Dr. Saroyan?
I am so your most valuable player.
Now, this is the profile of the accelerant we found on the bones.
And this is the profile of the gas we took off BOOTH's tie.
He could have siphoned it out of his own car to burn Cal Warren's remains.
C6H8O7 .
It's my considered belief that Agent Booth spilled orange juice on his tie.
Residue on the medial malleolus might tell us what restraints were used.
Hi, Angela. You look great today.
Yeah, I found flecks of black enamel paint in the wound.
We found two of 'em last year.
I found minute traces of gypsum and selenium on the mystery wrist bone. Also, phenolphthalein, which is a kind of laxative.
The laxative is on the surface of the bone. I - I have no explanation.
The laxative is the one thing that makes no sense. Last time, it was masturbation. Did he reference bowel movements?
Ammonia. Ohhh! Why didn't you say so?
Booth thinks we should get together and buy Brennan a pet.
A pig. And I don't think he means a guinea pig. A real pig. Like a Mulefoot, Saddleback, or pot belly.
Besides being a laxative, phenolphthalein is a sensitive pH indicator.
Why would he want us to destroy evidence he planted?
A Freemason symbol? Hey, this explains the "buried facedown" thing. Oh, it's all starting to come together. These crossed hammers prove that Epps is working for the top level of the Illuminati.
Oh.
One that contains gypsum and selenium.
I found traces of ethylene oxide and high levels of an antibacterial agent on Sarah's ankles. Also, polymer residue found in Polygenex latex glove liners used by people who handle toxic substances.
So, what? His message "Don't you miss them?" meant what, his legs?
"Rant Herein I." You know, like inner schizophrenic voices.
Hey, the guy's all about sending messages.
Postal workers wear Polygenex gloves.
Yeah.
The only substance I can't explain is ethylene oxide.
It - it could be a lot of things.
I'll set up a statistical model, give you four or five scenarios.
I can't just guess! I have a process!
What if I guess and the girl dies? No. No way!
Yeah. Just give me a second, please.
Okay. All right. Uh, antibacterial agents. And uh, he - he's a postal worker.
Uh-
Anthrax.
After the Anthrax attacks in 2001, the post office shut down several ... sorting centers.
Uh, they used ethylene oxide and this antibacterial ... agent, to - - That's how they cleaned 'em. Not all of 'em reopened.
Yes. Yes, it is.
Whew.
Soil beneath the skeletons was full of weirdness, quite a bit of decomposed cotton.
Wow it's decomposed very cheap stuff too, I think they were wrapped in a sheet.
I have a theory Vincent: The circus Hodgins: Kind of stole my thunder there. But yeah, yeah the travelling circus.
The choque used in flooring, fire prooving, cosmetics, toothpaste and laxidants.
Wow Angela: Hey, Brennan send a photograph of the note the twins left at the circus.
Oh. Can we please hit rewind. One of the girls had a boyfriend?
Only one of them? I mean. How did they? You know when they're? I just don't see physically how they...
huh? Yeah sorry. Still working on the mind picture eradication thing.
uhh...yeah actually...yeah I did. A residue of polyelectrolyte polymers under the fingernails of Julie and not Jenny. It was polyfenal pyrrolidone.
It's not make-up it's hairgel. Seems like Julie was running her fingers through someone's hair.
No. But it would smell a lot like sandalwood.
Hmmm yes. That's definitely on the list of possible products, yeah.
Are they sure they know what they're doing?
Help me! Help me!
Help me!
Dr. Brennan!
The suspects steel-toed boots were also found in the storage locker.
I think Taffet is just messing with us again.
Yeah, or maybe she knows there's something in the soil samples we already have so she's just trying to distract us.
Are you telling me to give up, Sweets?
Cling. Okay, so I'm crazy now.
What happened to the numbers?
Well, any luck?
You didn't ask me if I found anything new in the soil samples.
No. Of course not. Sweets was right. You knew that. I'm barely keeping it together here, Ange.
I don't feel strong enough to tell anybody yet. I feel like she's still got me locked up, you know? I mean, when I see her there's just this, um, anger. I mean, it's like a helplessness that comes-
When I was buried in that car, I didn't think I was ever going to see you again. And now, I feel like she's still in between us.
What are you talking about?
We aren't v*ctim in this crime.
And now our hands are tied.
Excuse me?
Noooo. No. Caroline has to prosecute our case. Taffet tried to k*ll us.
Are you kidding me?! Is it really that easy for you to forget what happened to us?
This better work.
The teeth seem to have been cleaned. Taffet probably wiped them off.
Saliva contains amylase that would have broken down any bits of tissue.
Oh, don't call him a bug. Sounds insulting. We reexamined the boy's teeth and found it wedged between the right lateral incisor and canine. Dust mites eat dead human skin cells and this one's stomach sac is full.
This is a dermatophagoides farinae.
It's a dust mite: an insect found on clothes, but it also feeds on the cells of the person wearing those clothes.
Between Terrence Gilroy's teeth. It was transferred there when the boy bit the person who kidnapped him.
Taffet was pretty convincing in there, too.
You know what, Booth? You're right. 'cause no matter what happens in there, I've got Angela.
It's okay. I don't care, Angie. Look, Taffet's not going to make the rules anymore. I want our friends to know. I want everybody to know. Okay. Angela and I are married.
Ah, I was having trouble dealing with things because of the trial. Then I thought...screw it.
Oh, come on.
The remains were significantly degraded by insect and animal activity, mostly dog and rodent. Despite the condition of the body, he's been dead between only thirty-six to forty-eight hours.
Meet and greet, press the flesh, butt kiss...
I can't make it.
Not me. I'm not afraid of parking or feet.
Methyl oxide vapor in this chamber will bind to whatever compound Charlie breathed in before he was k*ll.
Ouch!
The key there is management, which is what I'm doing. Managing my anger.
There'll be a color change. Red for pnictogens and chalcogens, and blue for halogens.
Halogens it is. I'm gonna scrape off the particles and see if the mass spectrometer can identify what type of halogen.
Chem lab mass spectrometer identifies the particulates in Charlie Sanders' mouth as fluoride.
I recognize that look.
You're writing another book. When you write, you get this stunned look on your face like you stuck a fork in a toaster. Am I in this one too?
It's too high for toothpaste.
All right. Do you have time for this?
Nice. Who?
Fight coercion in all its forms. You don't write the book, I don't go to the banquet. Solidarity.
Do people really ever know each other?
Oh, I didn't pick up that kind of vibe off you.
Oh, come on. That one's obvious.
Who else knows?
Don't tell Brennan.
I don't want to be anybody's boss. I never did. Please respect that.
It's... job pressure.
Fluoride at lower concentrations is used in toothpaste, instant tea, and is added to our drinking water. Which, I might add, can cause a range of conditions, brain damage-
The concentrations found on our v*ctim might come from wood preservatives, paint thinners, car wax, or various other industrial products.
No. But we hardly know anything about each other.
Angela, Booth!
Zack has been informed that if he tells anyone who I am, I will kick him out on the street like a stray dog. Sadly, there is nothing I can threaten you two with.
What I want out of my life is to come in here and sift through slime and bugs. Unfortunately, my family is one of those who secretly run the world.
You call it paranoia, I call it the family business. Please could you just stop!
The reason that I do not want to go to that banquet is that the other members of the ruling elite will make a big fuss about seeing me. My secret will be out and my life, this life that I love, will be ruined. I'm asking you, please, please just let me be Jack Hodgins who works in the lab.
I am not going, Dr. Goodman.
Leave me out of it. I'm not going.
Uh, I'll get right on it.
Thanks.
Which would be between two to five days ago.
Yeah, I got late second instar Phormia regina and Chrysomya rufifacies. Which, I admit, seems weird, but my little squads of death don't lie.
Never seen insects like that. Except in Alien.
Ohh, what the hell is that?
I'm running the bugs through the Mass Spec. I'm not getting any toxins, but they might not have fed on the remains yet. In other words, I need more samples.
Great, so we can rule out demons.
Mine show no evidence of arsenic, ethylene glycol or cyanide. No signs of any toxins.
That's the best idea I've heard today. Does it work with tequila?
We're losing our evidence?
What? Uh... okay. Did you know that the international telephone dialing code for Antarctica is 672?
Hey, got something. I found some particulates on our v*ctim's clothing. Simmondsia chinensis, mica Red 7 Lake, And Fragaria anassa. Also known as Lust Dust.
On his pants. His, uh, lap. Strawberry body glitter. Such as might be utilized by a lap dancer?
That makes me King of the Lab.
Can't ruin it for me. King of the Lab!
Okay. The skull is melting.
Whoa!
Whoosh. Pop, whoosh.
Not anymore- it all b*rned up.
Ion chromatography takes time.
Fluoride ions would tear through cells and soft tissue until they met up with calcium.
Hydrofluoric acid.
Antacid.
Antacid contains magnesium hydroxide. If we cover the hydrofluoric acid in enough magnesium, it will stop attacking the bones.
Yeah.
The good news is that the bones stopped dissolving. The, uh, bad news is...
Well, how do we do that? Drop it on the floor like a piggy bank?
No, at-at this moment, it-it would not.
So... IC results confirm anions of chloride, sulfate, phosphate, nitrate and fluoride. So his body was exposed to highly concentrated hydrofluoric acid.
No idea.
I also found some fecal matter on the bottom of the shoes.
Not from a Cebinae Cebus.
Capuchin.
They had... Motile flagellates in the poop date the freshness to five days ago.
Has anyone suggested a pinata scenario? I'll leave you to it.
Eight people have been k*ll.
We have to hit him back now before one of us is dead.
Yeah.
Typical American billionaire. He thinks we can do it better.
Check it out. British slime. So much more proper than American slime.
Hey, Angie.
Please tell me you are here to sign the divorce papers.
Of course you are. Uh, I understand, but Angela is in love with me.
Bioluminescent phytoplankton. Nothing mystic.
Hm? No worries. Our lips meet all the time.
What?
So-so-so... what about the divorce papers?
Mhm. Yup.
Yeah.
So Brennan had strips of material sent from the vehicle, which I analyzed: ST-90 transmission oils, made with poly-alpha-olefin, leaded, acidic H2O residue, and plenty of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
A motorcycle was transported in the back of the SUV.
Or moped.
Dumps the car, body and all, in the river, and rides his scooter home.
Yeah. I'm not here for food. I'm here to get you to sign the divorce papers.
I'm not in your place.
I know. I know. Our private investigator told us everything. You built Angela a home with your bare hands while simultaneously smuggling medicine to children in Cuba and supporting an orphanage. You're a saint. I get it.
I do. And guess what? It's me.
Obviously, I'm not. But I do love her more than you.
And yet, I do.
Yeah. I'd give up my life for Angela, so what's a little dignity?
On the cheek or...?
He says you kissed him.
I checked out the skull fragments for microscopic traces.
Mother-of-pearl. Have you talked to Angela today?
How mad is she?
I thought women secretly liked it when we fought over them.
The treads in the v*ctim's tires were mostly full of river silt but I did find a few more materials. Crushed scleractinian coral. Possibly from Australia.
It's used as a surface for private roadways in England.
Well, it's been illegal to harvest this stuff for years, so the roadway in question is fairly old. And even when this stuff was available, it was incredibly expensive.
Deciduous pinnate leaflets, medium pink petals. It's a rosa damascena. An antique rose bush.
Yeah. Hey. Hi, Angela.
Deal. So long as you don't kiss your ex-husbands. For longer than 3 seconds. On the lips.
I get that. I mean what you're saying, not your heart.
Because you're giving it to me?
Wow, that is so flaky and New Age and wonderful.
Rats?
And given the level of predation, I'd say three days.
Found it! I found the stoats' den.
Yeah, no, lucky for us, the stoat actually lines his den with the remains of his prey.
Yeah.
He was a talk radio host who was ignorant and angry.
Uh, hey, Cam, there's a piece of string adhered to the tissue there, you see that?
So, the dung on the v*ctim's boot came from Rangifer tarandus, otherwise known as...
What are you working on, exactly?
Vikings, Cam.
I'm telling you, with the evidence that we've got, as well as Kathleen's testimony, that guy does not stand a chance.
Amazing, okay.
I loved Chevy Chase. We all have our crosses to bear.
Whoa. Mullet alert.
Certainly grew out of it. I wore Doc Martens that weighted more than I did.
Ran a sample of the sludge.
Oh, come on. When you can ladle someone, he's a little less than a person. Don't you think? Fine. I took a sample of Roger, ran it through the mass spectrometer. You never guess what I found. Traces of an unidentified organophosphate.
Very good. I'll break down the rest of the chemicals now.
So he got b*at up for his lunch money?
The kid basically melted into all of this. Should be able to pull more chemical traces off the artifacts to ID the organophosphate on him.
You were the nerd fantasy.
She was my first anatomy lesson - was confused for years.
Wow. What are you? A Term paper. Launch codes.
Definitely an 80's plot to destabilize the country.
It's a Wallingham. It's nice.
It's dry. This is a good watch. Some kind of residue.
Let me at it.
Alright. I found several denim fibers on both the gold watch and the floppy, matching what's left of the v*ctim classic acid washed 80's jeans. That places the watch and the disk inside the v*ctim pocket at the time of his m*rder. I tested the residue inside the watch casing? Pure crystalline tropane alkaloid.
So Miami Vice I could roll up my sleeves.CAM: The FBI sent us the files of everyone connected to the school who had a record. Mostly petty thefts, DUI's - that sort of thing. Darwin Banks. Teacher at Foothill High. Arrested in a school wide drug bust - June 12, 1987.
That's two days after Roger disappeared.
Looks like our young geek might have been k*ll over a drug deal.
I tested the goop. Found traces of cocaine consistent with the leakage from the gold watch.
So his old teacher was telling the truth? Huh. I also discovered what he was dosed with and how much.
Malaoxon. CAM: Malaoxon?
Yeah.
Yeah, but there's barely enough to make a mouse cough.
My geek princess. I knew the mall couldn't suck out your soul.
Oh. Oh, this is incredible.
Yeah, you don't see anything wrong with that? Doom came out in 1993. All of this stuff - the 3D rendering, the first person sh**ting - barely a glints in the geeks eye in 1987.
If this game had come out in 1987, Roger Dillon would have been a billionaire, several times over.
I bring more banal and tangible evidence.
We're catching m*rder.
Uh, you're in a secure lab.
Anywho, we've determined that the malaoxon in the Roger stew was originally the common organophosphate pesticide, malathion, before it broke down.
There was this 1980's mosquito panic, and malathion was sprayed everywhere. Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services says there was a quadrant bordering Foothill High School that was sprayed at 7:45 PM on Thursday, June 14, 1987.
Spraying aerial neurotoxins in an attempt to k*ll creatures that outlive atomic b*mb tends to make bureaucrats consider possible lawsuits, I guess.
Yes, but in 1987, it was mostly a swamp. The development was under construction. There were only a few finished homes.
In this concentration, Roger had to have been wading right through the middle of it.
There's only one reason. A girl.
I was a boy. And I searched the 1987 real estate records. Guess who lived in one of the only finished houses. Janelle Brown, head cheerleader.
Exactly.
It was quicker. She was a cheerleader. She was hot. He couldn't wait. It's the boy thing again. Or maybe he was peeping through her window. Could have been a peeper.
Only on the outside.
Whoever thought hair like that looked good?
It's a yearbook. It's supposed to be weird and humiliating.
Wait. Somebody put a prank version of the yearbook in the capsule to embarrass everyone 20 years later?
So, we're looking for two kids who put a yearbook and a body into the time capsule?
The textural stain on the under surface of Roger's mandible was liquid petroleum.
I know. I know. Dead common, right? But I did some further analysis.
I found that there were microscopic particles of granite embedded in the petroleum. Also, all over the broken seal of the time capsule.
Yeah, not unless he skated on asphalt. Twenty years ago - what I'm seeing as petroleum was asphalt. It was driven into Roger's bone with a flat, metal-
Yeah.
Typically, gravediggers are necrophiliacs looking for a little action.
In Pikeville, Tennessee, a guy dug up the graves of all these people because he wanted to make sure their bodies were still there. They weren't.
I ran samples from the body, shovels and burlap through the gas chromatograph and it all came back full of organic compounds. Plant detritus, root remnants, fertilizer.
Well, I also found this. Fernaldia pandurata, otherwise known as loroco buds.
It's quite distinctive. I'm also analyzing the dirt and particulates on the shoe you got off the suspect. At first glance it matches the vegetation we've already found but with a couple extras I'm still checking out.
Field work. Cool! Do I get a g*n?
Look at this. The government bankrupts itself giving tax breaks to the rich so that there's no money left to help these people with job training, educational resources, health care.
Those who do manage to land a job are working for minimum wage that hasn't seen a hike in eight years.
Loroco plant. That's the same approximate maturity that would've yielded the buds we found.
Trogid beetles. They got a think for decomposing flesh. I found a couple on the burlap.
I found Spodoptera, Ornithogalae and Tetranychus urticae on the suspect's show and on the v*ctim. I also found Notonectidae and Corixidae. It's aquatic fauna typically only found in and around ponds and streams.
Yeah, and here's the kicker. There was also evidence of genetic material from a Franklinia alatamaha on his shoe.
It's a rare flowering plant that hasn't been seen in the wild since 1800. The only known specimen in this area outside a specialized botanical garden was given to Senator Alan Corman as a gift. Oh, I love going after senators.
Fine. It's at the White House.
Make sure to keep your eyes open for backswimmers and water boatmen while you are there. Remember the Notonectidae can be different colours, you know, so...
I call g*n.
I called g*n. What does it mean to a society when the niceties are no longer observed?
I know what I find relaxing.
Senator Corman is a big supporter of business leaders in Central America. That means supporting repressive regimes that use death squads to silence any opposition from the working people which are the same people who flee to the States.
Citizenship screening would keep out members of death squads.
Franklinia alatamaha. It's beautiful.
I found both backswimmers and water boatmen.
Puparia casing of tineid moths puts the time of death of this one at about a year, six months before the girl.
Military issue. Those are the kinds of w*apon gangs like.
The gangbanger was probably taking the daughter to be reburied when the coops pulled him over.
We've used up all the evidence.
Oooh! Let, let, let me try! Ooh. The daughter got pregnant from the k*ll in El Salvador, then came here. He catches up to him, they fight.
The father comes after him seeking revenge and the k*ll k*ll him. Oh!
Tough old bastard.
Mega tough old bastard.
I identified the type of wood in the w*apon that k*ll Maria. Am I interrupting a female moment?
Quarter-sawn cumuru. Definitely not from a shovel handle.
Very expensive furniture.
Most definitely.
Well, that wins the understatement award for today.
Well, if the 3lbs of muck I got here in the catch is any indication, then that washing machine must have been a beast.
b*llet wound? He was sh*t?
Condom! Unused. Never mind.
0 for 11 as a utility infielder before being traded to the Royals.
Oh, and are all American Muslim drives in a run! Nice one, Arastoo!
Rock climbing, baseball playing, crash test dummy?
Four that I know of...
Yup. The fingernails.
I also have clothing remnants, mostly denim. A chain, also mostly likely part of the v*ctim apparel. Some pieces of molded silicone elastomer..
Oh, god.
So, no cause of death.
This baseball thing? You allowed to play?
That's a yes, with an additional comment on my ignorance.
No way.
Wow.
Oh, come on. I can't be on an all-Muslim team. I'm a lapsed Episcopalian.
Really? Huh. Never tried to b*at the infidels before.
You're on.
How's it going?
Cleveland Indians. 187 batting average. Zero home runs and 146 errors.
Yeah. It's incomprehensibly bad. Here, this might help. If found it in the washing machine cache.
Well, it's bone, so that's your department.
What is it?
What can't it be.
There was a prehistoric elephant in the washer with him? What are you, nuts?
Brian May uses and English penny.
This guy has got a seriously short fuse.
Cam said the bl*od spatter analysis didn't show any drag marks on the carpet from Dalton's hotel room.
Wait a minute. Out v*ctim was b*at to death with a guitar?
That is so hot that you know that. Interesting. It's-that's interesting.
The k*ll did an excellent cleaning job.
I'll do it in the Ookey Room. Arastoo, little help here?
Okay, this fret is cracked.
No, no. The cracks are tiny. Yeah, you know, every fret in the lower register is cracked.
Yeah, but that doesn't matter. This is from chlorine. See, the frets are made out of nickel and nickel reacts like this when exposed to chlorine.
That's why it was so clean when Bebe stole it.
Yeah, but they're brand-new. I mean, there's no cracking.
Well, if the k*ll restrung the guitar, then maybe he left us a little present. Bingo.
Yes. Yes, it is. Purple.
Actually, it's the fecal coliform bacteria, streptococcus and maggots.
Bless you.
Stop making that face. It's just sewage, Ms. Wick.
Six barrels worth.
Good.
We got the all clear. No danger, no suit. You got a problem with that?
She's with Agent Booth. She asked me to tell her all about how you're doing.
Hand it over. What have we here? It's human hair. Distinct color variations.
There's no root bulb, which there should be if it was torn out. Cross-section is round, which suggests it's Mongoloid in origin.
Yeah. Not bad. But he could if he used this keratin glue to stick a wig on his little bald head. Start sifting through the sewage and isolate the strands of hair.
They know, Ms. Wick.
He looks familiar.
Put on his toupee?
That's why he looks familiar.
Our v*ctim is Bill O'Roarke.
Everything you never wanted to drain from outhouse sludge. Two toy cars, three cell phones, a doorknob, a rubber casing, plastic Easter bunny head,and - drumroll...optional-one slightly used 40-caliber b*llet.
What is that on her back?
Sounds like Viagra-popping Billy might have gotten himself a bit too involved with someone at work.
I'm done with the culture you swabbed from the wound on the v*ctim's thigh.
A trace of enameled iron, a fleck of silver plating. Maybe from a kn*fe?
So he had saliva and iron in a wound on his thigh?
Okay, so somebody with a thrush infection scratched him with something metal, and then licked him?
Hmm... wavy thigh scratch.
You serious?
Infected tongue piercing.
Silver-plated iron.
I know what was used to cram the picture down his throat.
Daisy found the fractures on the sagittal suture, which contained some particulates.
They are chlorinated polyethylene. It's the rubber used on the tail of a microphone. The copper wire we found in his intestine was from inside that rubber cap.
Nice.
No saw was found.
Hey, man.
Very good for a 29-year-old.
Hey, so, the particulates I swabbed from the skull injuries showed traces of polyurethane and sandarac resin.
Room 114--
Definitely confirms one thing. We have the coolest jobs ever.
Not so lucky for either of them.
Do I hear music?
One torn pair of jeans. One red linen blouse - size two.
v*ctim is female, in her late teens, eliminating three of your missing persons right here.
There's the spectrophotometric evaluation on Judy Dowd. No results yet on her tox screen.
One of these fine lads?
Wait, our v*ctim was an HSB?
Hottie Student Body dot com. It's this website that gets drunk college girls from all over the east coast to take their clothes off. What? I clicked on a pop-up, got caught in a pornado. What?
Have a look. It was sh*t in Fort Lauderdale the same night Judy disappeared.
He's names Monte Gold, internet king pin, inspiring Hugh Hefner.
He also paid out a million in fines last year for filming under aged girls BRENNAN: I wonder if he knows you can't just pay a fine if you m*rder some one?
Judy Dowd wasn't k*ll at the swamp where she was found.
Cryptosporidium on her clothes came from saw grass, a plant that doesn't even grow in Eugene's swamp.
Oh, pretty much every where else in the Everglades. But in terms of gator distance, there's a saw grass marsh two miles south where Alligator Alley meets State Road 29.
Did I not mention the fresh asphalt in Judy's shoe? That intersection was just repaved about a month ago.
Okay, got my w*apon list and visual aids, courtesy of Angela. Now we know the wound was caused by a blunt steel dowel with screw threads at the top. The bruising around it is the rough size and shape of a harmonica. Now theoretically, the head of the wound struck, leaving bruising but then broke.
So, possible w*apon include shovel handle with steel shaft, a golfer's wooden putter with aluminum shaft...
It's an alloy gear shifter with a grip shaped handle.
Yeah. She might of not been k*ll standing up, she could have been thrown down and then impaled.
Trent McNamara was a nasty piece of work, and that's his sister Stephanie.
Yeah, well, what's left of him.
I mean, I got to say, that is not a good way to lose weight. All right, okay.
Uh, hold on. Okay.
Well, Foster would not have left anything important on it.
Oh, man, there are pieces of this guy everywhere.
Cam?
Wait a minute.
But aside from the pictures, it's all encrypted.
Wendell, my man. Are we still up for lunch?
Everybody poops. They even wrote a book about it. I found a piece of plastic in the cat's faeces from a bag or airline peanuts.
Yup. Preferred airline of Mother Russia.
Ooh, ouch.
Paint from the speed bump is called Tungsten Silver. Ooh. Trade name; Casino Royale. That would narrow things down a bit.
Yeah, we got drunk together last week. It carries great meaning for men.
Dude! What's new?
Nothing.
Un-believable.
That's Bond's car! James Bond.
Well, no. But cmon, there's more than a grain of truth in those Bond films.
Trust me, Angela. Nothing is as it seems.
Yeah, I think you have some intimacy issues there, man.
I found g*n residue on his hands. My bet; that Walter PPK k*ll our Russian.
Whoever sh*t at his window on the roof.
We're going down the rabbit hole here, people. The CIA has no problems silencing people that poke around in their business.
Hey! A lot of people would like to see me dead.
Yeah. After the crash, our trustees froze all assets until they can reevaluate the portfolio.
Dude!
Okay, so I was inspecting Dorit's watch and I see the battery case is loose, so I opened it. And what do I find? A bug.
Cause this bug, is not an insect. It's a bug, bug.
Someone was spying on our spy, who was spying on another spy. Come on! A little enthusiasm here?
Oh man! You told him?!
What kind of creep breaks up with someone over an email?
Or a stenographer hidden data within the file.
She was the only person he could trust. He's sending her a message.
Won't be the same without you, man.
That is, quite a coincidence.
What?
Aubrey!
Nice, but no.
Yes.
Hey, yeah, Booth.
Uh, hey, Booth, hold on one second.
So cello-girl's parents spend, like, a quarter of a million dollars on lessons, but she decides to do drugs and run off with gymnast girl.
The spider eggs were on the body before it was encased in the clay. The heat in the lab caused the eggs to hatch, and when you shone your flashlight, they headed for the light.
Yup. These bad boys are Frontinella communis; they're non-poisonous.
This spider's not found in the area where the body was discovered.
Well, I mean, if we remove the moisture from the clay, then it should just fall away without affecting the bones, at all. I just need four dehumidifiers. You okay, there, Dr. Saroyan?
Someone should tell them it's drummers that get the girls.
How did you work this up without me?
Silicate causes clay to adhere...
Okay. Next time someone says your brain is a jumble of disconnected chaos, you just send them to me.
You need me to stir?
Well, there's over 30 separate breeding grounds within a 200-mile radius of the body site. I'm analyzing the egg sacks to see if I can narrow it down further, but... I've got some time. And this is so cool.
Hey. Look what Vincent did; he turned our v*ctim into rhubarb pie.
Sounds like he was tortured.
You know what? These are all common football injuries.
A gay dentist who plays football.
Maybe one too many lingering glances in the locker room got him in trouble.
Yeah. I mean, with me, it happened all the time.
No. No, the boiling water would have destroyed the eggs.
I have no idea.
Yeah, this ain't England, pal; being gay in America is still a tough go.
Yeah, I-I knew that.
Looks like cause of death to me.
Okay, bugs and slime, pal. Different discipline entirely, sorry.
Okay, so the v*ctim was hit three times instead of once.
Brain piercing? Yeah, sounds very death-causing to me.
Again, very deathy. Wait a minute. Wh-What would cause someone's forehead to explode from the inside?
No. I mean... Oh. Wow.
Do you know what Vincent Nigel-Murray is? He's a genius.
Vincent found these small particulates floating in the rhubarb stew, right? Well, I identified them as silica phytolith, which is a...a razor-thin, clear, hard shell which protects seeds.
Flooding from the rain washed the clay and debris into that creek bed, which encased the body. Now, in all that muck, three periwinkle seeds became embedded within the v*ctim's skull.
It's called floral turbation. Over time, soft can become even harder than hard, like, uh, a sliver of grass that grows through cement.
The pollen from the egg sack is from hickory pine trees, but they don't grow where the body was found.
Okay, you're not listening to me.
Dude, you should totally just toss culpability onto Cam.
Well, Vincent's rhubarb stew completely washed away all the surface particulates. See how that's done?
My bad.
Tungsten carbide, which is a compound used to coat various types of tools.
Hey, where does she live?
Okay, the pollen I found in the sheet weaver spider's egg sack came from hickory pine trees. They don't grow where the body was found, but you can find them all over that part of Virginia.
Coated in tungsten carbide.
Hmm? No, she didn't say anything.
Think I know why our v*ctim's bones are green. The soil is lousy with iron oxides. That combined with the acidic ground water turned the calcium in the bones green.
Depends. How far down in the bone does the green color extend?
I'm gonna go with two to five months.
I could spend the rest of my life analyzing the contents of that sinkhole.
Right, well uh, Brennan found a Chinese panda right beside the body. Now within three meters, I found four Krugerrands, a French Rooster franc, a gold Indian Head and a Canadian Maple Leaf.
Oh, the rooster alone - - hey, thank you Sandy - was worth about four hundred bucks.
No, they're all common gold coins. There's a hefty market in it for people who are afraid the economy will crash, but it's not like they carry serial numbers.
It's a twenty two caliber rougar mark three, rusted beyond all belief. It's loaded, and unfired. It could belong to our v*ctim, or it could've been tossed in the sewer twenty years ago.
The remains were covered with one hundred and fifty years worth of rubble. That's a word I love.
Well, most of what he was buried in and what I found around the remains was tile. Translucent, ceramic, vitreous, dating back to the 1920s.
Nah, it's a pedestrian underpass. Here. It collapsed in the 30's, they just threw some rocks into it and paved it over.
Yeah, yeah, I mean the guy his size, there could've been a way through it, especially with some digging. That would've stretched from here underground to approximately the other side of the street, and then maybe another twenty feet east.
I still can't find a b*llet.
Could've been washed anywhere by the water. The guy's ring was nearly thirty meters away. High school wrestling, that has got to be the v*ctim's, right? Oh I am back! I mean, King of the Lab, right?
Well then, whose ring is this?
I cannot believe you got a judge to grant you an exhumation order.
We hope it's Cooper.
You sound surprised by that. Okay, kids.
Remorse.
Might want to watch the way you talk about Cam's brain there, Aubrey.
Brother, if I could take any of that pain off your hands, I would do it in a b*at.
Oh wow. v*ctim's watch. Totally cool. Measures heart rate, calories b*rned, speed, distance-
How's it coming Zack?
I need the bones, man.
I need to swab the ligature furrows for elemental analysis...
...What?
You?
Really.
What about your actual peers?
Jealous... of your singing. Yeah, I'm trying Zack, but I just, I can't see it.
Listen Pavarotti, I need the C5 vertebra, the hyoid and the temporal bone.
And by IDing the particulates in the wounds, I can give you more to go on.
Thanks for the concert.
Dude, you're the singer. Singer was the vic here.
Dr. B, what's up?
I swabbed the C5 vertebra, the hyoid and the temporal bone. Analyzing the particulates now.
Okay. I'm on it. Hey, how'd it go with guitar guy?
But... the wound...
So you're using from some wire used it a gym or by a physical therapist.
Right away.
Sorry to barge in.
there was elemental evidence on the vertebra!
It's phyllosilicate minerals and aluminum oxides.
Yeah.
Hey, very good.
I know, you're totally going to be cleared.
And there was silver conticulates embedded in the deposit.
Yeah. There's a company called 'clay global' which infuses sculpting clay with silver power. They sell direct via the internet. And, get this - they recently shipped a package of the clay to the other unit of our v*ctim's duplex.
Come on Dr. Brennan, you can do it! We're here for you, we're here for you!
Zack! Call 911!
On a school day? Right.
This is a phylogenetic mold.
There you are.
Yeah, I'm not sure yet.
Oh, oh, oh! Aw!
Yeah, but these Calliphora vicina eggs will confirm time of landing.
You're taking a show at me because I happen to believe that we are not all alone in an infinity of space?
This guy is wearing loafers. Aliens don't wear loafers, people.
Oh. Oh, this is harassment. You know, it's illegal to mock people for their fundamental beliefs.
The F.A.A. doesn't have jurisdiction over the entire universe, my friend.
Gray. They're gray. Not green. Gray. Being as you're half alien yourself, you should know that.
The longest we know of.
That we know of.
That we know of.
These are the documents you subpoenaed from the agency?
Want me to see if I can get anything out of this?
No. I'd need originals. These are photocopies.
Well, why else would ask me here?
With paranoid ravings?
Yeah. It's a multi-gazillion dollar, deep space, multifrequency telescope that keeps needing "repairs."
It doesn't need repairs. There's no rust in space. So-called "repair crews" are up there retrieving classified information.
Pluto's no longer a planet. It was demoted. And if the Lansing was pointed away from the Earth, why would they need to black out all this material?
Can I ask you a question?
What's the deal on proposing to, you know, a woman?
I mean, what is the absolute proper way to do it?
Did you do it by the book?
Yeah, that's sort of what I did. Only without the sticks.
Apparently I didn't do it right.
Hey, hey, hey. With his bone density sure as hell wasn't going back into space again.
His replacement? For what?
Oh, brothers in arms, my brother. That replacement's the guy who can tell you things the agency doesn't want you to know.
Space Travel Coalition. It's a privately funded space exploration and tourism group. And did you?
Vomit in the comet?
Celestial joyrides for gazillionaires. Selling seats on a spaceship that don't even exist yet.
That's what they want you to think, but these guys are swimming in dough. I already bought my ticket. I wanna see what's going on up there with my own eyes. What?
Mmm, something smells good.
Those definitely human bones? Because, apparently, there are a few types of aliens. Races, if you will. One is quite reptilian, widely known as Greys.
Another's bone structure's more amphibian.
Oh if you only knew how irony packed that is...It's a joke. Don't you be coming around to boil me in the middle of the night.
Healing from a fracture?
Now you're freaking me out.
Zoantharia of the order Scleractinia.
So it's a combination of human and alien technology.
I gotta say it. Frank Olson. He was a U.S. Army scientist in the '50s and an unwitting participant in Project MK-ULTRA. They said he committed su1c1de, but an exhumation forty-five years later proved he was m*rder. You need more. Project Paperclip. MK-Artichoke. And who could forget Tuskegee? The government experiments on people and then abandons them or worse.
Well, there you go. Experimental program for deep space fails and then the evidence has to be gotten rid of.
That is a good question.
This coral's growth was aided artificially.
Which makes it rare enough to trace to a pharmaceutical supply house based in Geneva, Switzerland.
Based in Bethesda, with a clinic in Haiti. Plus, he worked for the Space Agency until 1998.
He lost his funding and turned to the private sector. Namely, the Space Travel Coalition.
Ange, tonight, you and me, reservations at Les Deux Copains, 8:00.
Suit and gown fancy, baby. So leave your mukluks at home.
This our guy?
How about a light saber?
If they existed, Zack. Makeup, hair done, high heels. The whole enchilada. Only whatever's French for enchilada.
How--how are you feeling?
It's a good meal. Nice bottle of wine. You feeling loving?
I don't mean in that way. I am madly in love with you, Angela. And you--you are the most amazing woman that I have ever met. My life is so much better since we--
What?
Why would I get you all dressed up for dinner just to break up?
You know, I had this all laid out in my mind.
You are an upsetting woman.
I believe that if two people care enough for each other the rest of the world disappears to them. I feel that when I'm with you.
I'm prepared to put you ahead of me for the rest of my life. Angela Montenegro, will you marry me?
Why? I didn't do it right again. But...how...Oh, you're not gonna tell me.
I don't know if I should laugh, cry, or punch out the sommelier.
I don't understand.
While we make love?
But...you love me?
I found glass. I found pollen. Which do you want first?
Adipocere and decomp residues in the bagged soil, indicate the body was buried at least five years.
I'm still going through the soil samples, but something in there might allow me to be more specific.
It's a cop way of saying, "Get lost." BRENNAN: What?
A clump of cellulose. It came from soil samples collected at Brennan's mom's burial site from the same depth as her bones.
I used the laser scanning confocal microscope.
It looks like an espresso machine. Now it showed that this is mass-produced cardboard. Now electron dispersion spectroscopy indicates that the cardboard is coded with ethylenically unsaturated monomers, which kept it from completely deteriorating...
It's a movie ticket. A little U.V. analysis, some guesswork..I come up with "The Fugitive" ANGELA: So what's wrong? You don't like Brennan's mom's taste in movies?
The Fugitive was the third top-grossing film of 1993.
Yet, mom's going to Harrison Ford movies almost 2 years later.
What do I do? Pretend I never found this?
Dr. Brennan?
Yeah, uh.. this was in the soil samples alongside your mother's remains.
Either your mother had it in her possession when she was buried, or it was somehow buried with her.
No. That's not possible.
We decided to tell you the truth..and this is the truth.
Now, these two DNA charts are from the bl*od in the car. These two are from Dr. Brennan and her brother. These three match, and this one, does not.
But this chart - A male, but it's definitely not your father.
There would've been particulates left behind by a b*llet. Especially fired from a short range.
It looks like the business end of a tire iron.
The FBI delivered all these tools and w*apon from the pig farm guy.
Man loves his blunt instruments.
You do not need my permission to do what you want to do, Angela.
Angela.
The b*llet hit the bottom of the trunk with enough force to cause the blowback which ricocheted into her body.
Oh, man.
Hi!
Is this your place?
Well, this lab is so sterile, there isn't a single bug on the body.
And that they'd eat a lot of it.
Um, did you find any news out on that strange bacteria?
One of the research fellows at the biomedical lab was a Gingersnap?
Seriously?
Yes!
Wow...
What's a Zed?
I come bearing bad news.
Angie, I just sent you the results of the core sample I took from the shard of ceramic.
Looks like someone with a crooked nose was trying to get rid of our friend here.
We're going to need the Jaws of Life to pry this guy out of here.
I'll use an endoscope to retrieve any particulates without disturbing the remains.
Listen, I don't want to be rude, but I just don't think that's any of your business.
Me, either.
Right, yeah. Me, too. I mean, like, right away.
Sweets?
Sweets.
You know what this is?
23,000 pounds per square inch of raw prying power.
It's not displaced sexual frustration.
I am totally cool if Angela wants to date already, or, I mean, again.
You got these from the tissue samples?
Wow. Anti-anxiety drugs, mood stabilizers, anti-psychotics, antidepressants and k*ll.
So, our v*ctim could very well have been dead from an overdose before he was crushed.
Best way to find out is to crack her open, baby.
I didn't mean "baby."
Stand back, ladies. This is about to get medieval.
It's a hard car shell with a gooey corpse filling.
Oh, this sucks.
Those two are old friends from college-- if that's the same Roxie.
This heap is considered art.
The v*ctim's clothing shows traces of calcium oxide, ferric oxide and magnesium oxide. It wasn't found on the car seats or the carpet, just pressed into the fabric of his shirt, front and back.
It could be from stone if he was sculpting. It could be he was lying on gravel or about a hundred other things. We can't say without getting further access to the interior of the car.
And after that?
Stand back. I am going in.
Bummer.
There's also limestone and silicon oxide on his clothes.
Mix them all together, and poof, we've got a match with the concrete floor at the gallery.
Is any of it Thorne's?
Excellent. Next you should learn the concept of personal space.
It was wiped clean with turpentine, no signs of bl*od.
Sodium chloride and odorants.
Seven.
Do you ever listen to yourself?
Okay, now first off, I almost missed this so, don't praise me too much.
Yeah, but only because Angela asked for a personal favor. And I am powerless to resist. Okay, now, this is the v*ctim's clothing. And this is the ax handle of the "presumed" m*rder w*apon. As you know, there were traces of sweat on both of them. But not the v*ctim's sweat.
Yes, now, upon further analysis, I discovered other traces in the sweat.
I looked them up. This is treatment for chronic myelogenous leukemia.
She knows who did it.
He'll convince her that it's best for her to move to another job.
Sweets is firing Daisy for us.
I'm totally shocked.
So, based on the v*ctim's height and weight, I was able to extrapolate that he was placed in the barrel somewhere between 18 and 24 hours prior to the sugar being added.
That is the most beautiful thing I've ever awkwardly interrupted.
+1? Doesn't sound too promising.
Oh, I'm happy personally and professionally. Unsolved m*rder have gone up a thousand percent since you've left.
Rough estimate. Welcome back!
Ten years ago they renovated the fountain. They raised it on hydraulic lifts, sunk a series of shafts, mucked out the clay, laid down a layer of gravel, and then poured cement over that.
I've got samples of the soil, gravel, scrapings from the cement, and this.
If we're lucky it's something the m*rder left behind.
It's great. Us back together again, chasing criminals.
Booth. How many fingers am I holding up?
What I've got are multiple degrees in botany, geology, and entomology, which allow me to discern vital clues like this one.
It's a microspectrophotometry scan indicating that the fabric we found with the remains...
...is lint free static resistant polyester.
It was designed for use in fire hazardous...
...oxygen enriched atmospheres.
US Navy refers to them as Poopy Suits.
Yeah, exactly.
Now, my conclusion is we have uncovered the anonymous grave of the crew of the super secret stealth submarine
Hawkfish, which disappeared in the late 90s.
Now, the US government denies the very existence of the submarine, yet I...
Not at all, people pay a fortune to visit that giant underwater hotel in Aubudabi ANGELA: Yeah, Dubai. There's another one in Istanbul. Key West. Sweden.
Buried under a fountain? That's a bit of a come down from Bora Bora.
Dug out 12 from under the fountain.
Wow. They look like they're pretty close.
I know how everybody else died. Not Mr. Hole-in-the-Skull, but the others.
Right. Minute amounts in the soil layer beneath each and every body.
No, but it makes sense to ask ourselves what processes might result in crystalline calcium oxalate.
Kidney function would do that to plain old oxaline, which is derived from glycolate.
Glycolate is a conversion of glycolaldehyde via the aldehyde dehydrogenase in the liver.
Ethylene glycol.
Sweet to the taste. Easily disguised. Administered over time, which gives the kidneys time to crystallize the stuff. It's virtually untraceable.
Indistinguishable from MCS.
Is that true about the king of the lab?
Naomi, from Paleontology. Naomi and Zach slept together about a month ago. Since then she hasn't returned a single call.
You working on anything interesting?
Mmmm Hmmm.
Yeah. Oh God, Yeah. Very exciting, very exciting. Some uh...silt profiles.
Oh man I know. Silt profiles. You know what we need?
What there's a case? Why didn't you say so? Zach! You gotta go.
C'mon Zach. Shake it off. Huh? Be a man.
You know what's good? Throwing yourself into your work, Huh?
Get out there and bring us home a case, buddy.
There is a significant Crematogaster ant colony in the tree that fed on the body as well as Tabanid maggots. I will give you a time of death estimate when I figure who ate what when.
That wasn't a high school. It was an experimental Eugenics program.
Ooooo...
It's not what you did wrong. It's what you didn't do.
There are some things you learn by doing... riding a bike, driving a car, pleasing a woman.
Or apparently please a woman.
I'm not really the guy to talk to about that.
Because our relationship is all about what's up here. What you need to do is talk to someone more earthy.
Eggs, larva, waste all indicate that the insects which fed on the body are all indigenous to the tree in which he was found. It means he died there approximately ten to fourteen days ago. I'll have the seven organ soup.
There was plenty of the affluent in his clothes but they are all post decomposition. As the body swells, it bursts from internal gases. How does the guy know what you want?
Birds pecking at the soft tissue of the throat, Could that crack the hyoid?
We all went to private schools and none of us are criminals.
Ooh, so you do take orders?
Hey bugs buzz but they do not lie.
No, no you got to taste it.
Angela, it's so good. Mmmm.
Thanks a lot Booth. My seven organ soup is repeating on me.
That was not wild and kinky sex. It was very, very basic beginner stuff. Just so you know...uh, Angela, you got any bicarbonate?
Tabanid pupil casing show the boy ingested a heavy dose of Ketamine before he died. Kids call it Special K.
Yeah well who took me to Wong Salmonella's?
Okay that is amazing. I had heartburn. I asked Sid to bring me something and now the heartburn is gone. I mean it's gone. Man I love this place.
I can try.
Hey, lookee here.
I found feces from every arboreous animal you can imagine, plus insects.
What?
The pond is not only warm and teeming with microbes, which accelerated decomposition, but it houses black carp and coy which fed on the body.
I got three larval stages of trichoptera, chironimidae...
The body was in the pond one winter and two summers.
You really think I'm Lesty?
I found some small bone fragments in the silt.
I guess Rana Temporaria.
Also some tiny gold links, those from a fine chain...
I haven't analyzed whatever it was the v*ctim was holding in her hand but it looks like cellulose.
Possibly.
Well, in that case, congratulations on your success.
Yeah, she's a senate intern who was boinking Senator Allen Bethlehem.
He's not happy because Senator Bethlehem chairs the Senate Committee overseeing the FBI.
Ha! Cover up!
Is it paranoia that Monica Lewinsky was a KGB trained sex agent mole?
In a nutshell; anxious, depressed and nauseous.
Not me. Cleo Eller. Pupal casings show that she was on Lorazepam, Chloradiazepoxide, and Meclizine Hydrochloride.
The girl was pregnant.
This Senator, ahhh he is smart. He gets an intern pregnant and then m*rder her when it threatens his career and he has the connections to get away with it.
Special Unit? No way your FBI pal heads it up unless the dark powers in charge are convinced he knows where his political bread is buttered. Either way, this is where this investigation ends.
In case Cleo was identified, the m*rder planted evidence. The little book that Brennan got from the stalker matches the cellulose I found in Cleo's hand.
Sound like any conniving, son-of-bitch senators you know?
Don't worry, if that's the hammer used on Cleo Eller, he'll get arrested. A toast to getting this bastard.
Let's take guidance from the lives of the Saints.
Two separate entities. Albertus Magnus was a 13th century philosopher, the fish monger saint was a ...
Yeah, for swimming pools, water filters...
She only sh*t him in the leg. Once.
This is it?
It's the last day of his clinical trial.
Like bowling pins.
I thought we didn't have names for the students who participated in the professor's experiments, only faces.
No, no.
The shovel was found a few feet from where the water main burst, buried in a colony of worms.
The metal shavings here match the shovel. Someone was digging in the cemetery and broke the water main, resurrecting the dead.
Maybe he came back to dig up the v*ctim.
Dark!
Found casings from Eastern caterpillars in his eye sockets, means he was buried about three years ago. He has kind eyes. How do you know he had kind eyes?
And you wonder why I love you. Is she not fantastic?
I thought maybe the same shovel was used as the m*rder w*apon. The metal residue on the skull is some sort of silver alloy.
If I can narrow down the smelting process of the silver, I might be able to figure out what kind of w*apon we're looking for.
You do?
Move in with me.
We already live together, just... just move in.
You've taken over my closet. It's over half full. And over half is the common law definition of living together.
I need you.
I feel fine.
I'm listening.
Very good. Yeah.
I found traces of gold in some of the fractures.
Yeah, which means McCourt could have been struck by a shovel, but also he could have been struck by one of the valuables the grave robber found.
Only to be surprised one night by Father McCourt, who gets his head bashed in for his trouble.
That is some serious bling.
Enough to k*ll a priest?
This sounds good.
Nah, I didn't notice. But then again, I didn't notice that you didn't want to live with me either.
If you are getting cold feet...
Angela.
The Egyptian place?
You got it.
Perfect replica. For the new exhibit. We're just making it a little bit more authentic. Your feet aren't cold anymore.
Hey, I thought I was successful, but if you want me to try harder...
We can't keep our hands off each other. I think about you all the time.
Moving in is the next logical step.
I have an estate. I'll buy out your lease.
You said we would talk.
Alright, see these tiny metallic fragments embedded in the v*ctim's skull? It's silver.
The silver was smelted using the lead reduction method. The flexes used indicate that it's from the early 1800s, probably during the Napoleonic wars.
It's a match. The silver fragments in Father McCourt's skull came from that chalice.
So, we have no cause of death?
Alright, I'll go compile a list of possible sources of the poison at the church.
The poison's easily derived from boiling yew tree needles.
So far.
Someone much weaker than himself.
Yellow.
The bad news is someone's trying to k*ll you.
Whoa.
Well, pardon the fromage reference, but what's with the moldy Gruyere in that leg?
I'm not the bone expert here, but...yuck.
What about the aging disease?
New osteologic scans to input, as requested.
Monet?
Not bad for a certified member of the geek squad.
Well, you should.
Here's another one. And this one died of lung cancer three months ago. I'm checking on a burial site.
Got it. Second decedent's name is Ronald Lupo. I found him at a cemetery in Lynchburg.
Maybe with LIBS.
Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy. It'll give us an elemental analysis of the old bastard.
Strontium isotope levels suggest Donor X lived the last twenty years on the east coast.
A few of the Hatfields and McCoys still have no teeth.
High level of C8. That's a key ingredient of Teflon.
Yeah, just a little one. Employees there were growing a second head. Can you say cover up?
Blair Simmons isn't dead.
He's frozen in a cryogenics lab.
Like a supermarket turkey. Not a scratch on him. And I think he's wedged between Walt Disney and Ted Williams.
X-ray micro-fluorescence shows a high concentration of calcium carbonate.
Everything tracks. I mean, the cremains are consistent to those of William Hastings. The question I keep asking is, if the widow is guilty, why keep the remains so close to home?
Man, is she gonna be pissed.
That's right, that's our job.
So the transplant assistant fancied herself a doctor?
And what about BioTech Tissue Labs?
That's ok, I got it.
Hey.
You all right?
You can do that.
You made a whole guy out of bone chips and lights. You can create the Louvre.
It's overrated...most of the time.
The accelerant was common motor oil. Available at any gas station.
I can't get much off of what's left of his clothes, it's just a generic mixture of cotton and man-made fibres.
Whoa, hey! Horns fall under my area.
Really? Huh. Well I took a sample of your horns and ran it through the mass spec. In addition to calcium potassium, manganese and silica...
I also found calcium carbonate in the crystal for aragonite, which is better known as coral.
Can we please call him Hell Boy until we find out otherwise?
I finished my analysis of the contents of the boot treads. Within the treads, I found peat moss, sand, and perlite; also known as potting soil, as well as seeds from a plant commonly known as Christmas roses.
Yeah, from the genus hellebore. Sorry. Even more interesting though, is the legend that hellebore is the key ingredient in a potion meant to summon the devil.
Hmm, they are completely clean. There are dents though, so they've been used.
Are you asking me to do an experiment?
Why are you saying his name like that?
"Arastoo..." You're chewing on his name.
Maybe he has low self-esteem.
"They" being...
Yeah, they call us "the Great Satan"...oh.
What does that mean?
"As he always must"?
Arastoo is a very sweet, gentle guy, you know?
No! I don't want to be the Great Satan! I don't even want to be a minor demon. You want me to talk to him?
Test number one. Now, I've placed sensors in this dummy to register the impacts of the nun chuck strikes.
Oh!
Son of a bitch!
Huh, okay, well...knock yourself out, I did. What are you some kind of Persian ninja? That can't be right. Oh, okay, yeah, no that's better.
Uh, the diameter of the w*apon matches, but, see, okay, nun chuks swing on an axis, because of the chain, right, which means the force increases exponentially along the length of the striking surface.
If Lloyd, the drug dealing nurse, k*ll Neal, the demonic schizophrenic, then this was not the w*apon.
All the wiring and the breakers, there's nothing morethan 225 volts.
Except for these all-access panels.
Yeah.
Specifically, a dachshund.
Yeah, two of them, actually-- they were bred for hunting, so for them, the v*ctim was a, was a victory dinner.
Yeah, and from what I've read, dogs need their own passports.
They're from Egypt.
Yeah, and last we knew, Pelant was in Egypt.
M-E-L-
Too fast for a copter.
This can't be happening.
There was nothing in the new swab.
All right, well, we'll know for sure when we're done examining the remains.
Hopefully, I can pinpoint a more specific time of death once I get a sample of the ammonia here.
It's not like we get a human light bulb in here every day. I've got mature first-instar Phaenicia Sericata about to molt. Indicates she's been dead approximately fourty eight hours. I gotta take more scrapings from the bones to analyse for luminescence.
Why does everyone think my job is so easy?
Hey, I am not a party trick!
Not. True.
Okay, look, people, Angela and I are cool. Okay? But she's... complicated. I will figure her out though. Just like these electric bones. Let's just go back to work. Okay?
You find anything?
They say chefs are the new rock stars.
Yeah?
Well then tonight? I'll take a kn*fe and fire... and make you an orgasmic grilled cheese sandwich.
I'm on it.
Oh my God, sushi, yes! That is it. You are brilliant!
The sushi got me thinking. P. phosphoreum: a bacteria that grows in seafood.
Exactly. Vibrio bacteria. Which, when catalysed by luciferase, causes the bones to glow. So if the kn*fe that was used to stab Carly contained P. phosphoreum, it would've entered her bloodstream.
No, the tissue Cam found? It's "uni" - sea urchin. A specialty in one of Carly's favourite sushi restaurants.
"Sushiguy23." How imaginative.
I don't understand. Why wasn't Abby k*ll too?
Yeah, but she's a witness.
Maybe whoever did this saw what he'd done and lost the stomach for it when it came to Abby.
Because this wasn't nasty enough.
She was locked up for thirty-six hours. I tell you, all she was worried about was surviving.
If I can help lock up the bastard who did this... at least someone gets justice, right?
Ahhh. Unidentified particulates. The two sweetest words that I know.
These white shards were found in the trunk and some were caught on her socks. FBI techs also found similar shards in the old house. I'm running a chemical analysis, but I'd say this is some kind of ceramic.
Actually, ceramics are used in everything from semiconductors to medical implants. This is a very hard ceramic. It's probably eight Mohs.
Yeah.
That is was most likely used for industrial applications. Do..hmm.
No, I'm not gonna ask you again.
No. Angela. No more, I'm done.
No. But...Hey, I fell in love with a free spirit, and if getting married makes her feel trapped or something, then I'm... I'm just gonna have to deal with it.
Sure I do.
But Angela doesn't. And I don't want to drive her away like you did with Rebecca.
After you asked and she said no.
If it had been right, it wouldn't matter if you were married or not, would it? Because you'd have a life together.
Because then we wouldn't be able to be together, see this is all coming so clear now!
You put on that macho front, but inside you understand.
It means a lot, knowing that you get it, man. Most guys... not secure enough to admit that.
Whiplash.
Any match on the semen?
Carly's husband said Ben was with the reserves when Carly was k*ll.
He wasn't on base. He was alone in the woods doing survival training. He could go r*pe and k*ll Carly, and no one would even find out he left.
I did it! I found the m*rder w*apon! Or, what's left of it, anyway. I used the G.C. mass spectrometre to analyse the ceramic shards in the car.
It's not just the bowl that's ceramic. The kn*fe is too. Booth mentioned that companies are sending her their products to endorse.
Uh-huh.
The m*rder w*apon was a ceramic kn*fe.
Zirconium oxide: super sharp and easy to shatter. In this case, you shatter it into a million pieces, no one knows it's a kn*fe. Except me, of course. Using Angela's program, I matched the wounds to the blade.
So obvious!
Look, I'm Abby. You're Carly.
Sit.
I'm just drivin' along. I undo Carly's seatbelt, slam on the brakes, she goes flying into the dash. Go. Go! Fly into the dash!
Okay, don't overdo it, sport.
Yes!
Uh huh.
Ack!
Thiiiis part will be left up to the imagination.
Yes! Abby k*ll Carly, pulls her out of the car-
Drags her into the old stone house...
...Destroys the m*rder w*apon, leaving us little tiny shards to find!
Yeah.
Look, Angela. I've been thinking. You're not like anyone I've ever known. And I don't want that to change. So I'm taking you the way you are. No strings.
P. phosphoreum.
Close your eyes.
Okay, careful. Keep 'em closed.
No. No, no, no, this is- this is not a proposal.
Huh?
You're insane.
Absolutely!
We cannot get a wedding together in a week.
Uh...
Okay, yeah, just a small little thing then.
Totally. Insane.
The algae in the trunk is Cyanobacteria called Microcystis aeruginosa the size of the...scum colony indicates 8 days submersion....Dr. Brennan? Have I offended you in some way?
Like a balloon.
Put a bladder inside the head and inflate it very slowly.
There was a body in here. It was removed.
This little darling, this Phaenicia sericata, also known as the common green bottle fly. Now William Chang was buried in January, 3 years ago. Since the green bottle fly is only active in the summer months, I contend he was dug up last July or August. Which allowed maggots to be laid in casket to feast on...
Oh, I can be a lot more specific..
He would have decomposed quickly. Buried in a pine box. Improperly sealed. Buried only two feet below the surface. Chang should sue that mortuary.
Yeah, and the decomp seepage into the fake money is um, au naturale.
Full service mortuary. They perform funerals AND weddings for dead people.
She's right.
The young lady's idea is brilliant, sir.
It is certainly easier to detect anomalies on new bones than on fossilized ones.
Who's a good boy?
Oh, it's almost as mysterious as Dr. B's birthday party.
Hey, good news.
Good job, Ange!
Oh, yeah?
I want to know what's in the box.
Hold on a second.
Second generation pupal stage blowflies set time of death six to seven days ago.
Hey, guys?
Some help, huh?
Hey...!
So she had to have lived someplace where she could have inhaled bat guano.
It seems like they all have equipment they want to sell us.
It couldn't have been more than ten minutes.
Hey!
Whoa!
Hey, brother.
Yeah, here.
Well, whatever it was etched pretty deep into the bone by the bird guano.
Yes.
The inside of the shoes showed traces of a sticky residue, like some insoluble protein, so I ran it through the Mass Spec.
I just got the shoes that the homeless guy took.
They retail for $2,000.
How about brains?
The mite silk we found on the feet and sneakers came from the Oligonychus ilicis.
I'm not k*ll that snake.
Cam is running DNA and tox screen on the bl*od.
I identified flakes of natron. It's a naturally occurring sodium carbonate decahydrate. It was used as a drying agent during the mummification process in the second century B.C.
Well, that lasted ten seconds.
The weave pattern of the linen suggests this was a top-notch embalming. I mean, we may be talking about a pharaoh or a prince here.
Pretty good motive to k*ll.
Yep, I'm on it.
I can't believe Dr. Kaswell is dead. I just met her a couple months ago at a party.
Truth be told, we kind of flirted with each other...
There are some metal flakes at the injury site. You say the word, I'll take them.
The metal shavings might help us identify the m*rder w*apon.
The urine of a redheaded boy.
From the swab of Dr. Kaswell's eye.
Well, not exactly. See this? The tool used to stab Dr. Kaswell left traces of iron and carbon. And, to a lesser extent, silicon, manganese and phosphorous.
Ancient metal workers turned iron into steel by accident. They accidentally carburized the iron while heating it over charcoal, thus turning it into low-grade steel. But they thought that it was the mode of quenching the molten metal that hardened it.
The iron turns to steel and our ancient metal worker figured that the little redhead did the trick. It's an instant old wives' tale.
They didn't. It was Ancient Rome. Our m*rder w*apon was forged in Ancient Rome.
Yep. Bet he didn't know his afterlife was going to consist of being dissected and analyzed, like what he really is... just a mere mass of chemicals.
Oh, I can't believe you asked that.
Hey, look what I found. Three different particulates within the chest cavity. We got crushed mammal bone, kermes insect and woad legume.
So we just can't make out the colors anymore because of decomp?
Yeah, but something was painted. What would have been painted?
Based on the density of the image, it's most likely Nile stone.
It's crystalline in structure. It's a corundum in the trigonal crystal system and the hexagonal scalenohedral class.
If the CAT scan were in color, it'd be red and really expensive.
A stone that size would be worth a fortune.
Hey, Dr. Kaswell's grad student... I mean, he's the one that requested the scans.
Yeah, and she tried to get Anok taken away from us before we could finish investigating.
Maybe we missed particulates from the k*ll on the mummy's linen wrapping.
Yes, but we'd be looking for something non-dumpster related.
Focus, Daisy.
Yeah, that'd be a question for a woman.
You really don't need me for this conversation, do you? Oh, wait, wait, wait. I think I found something here.
No, a grease spot. Most likely a fingerprint.
So, I got a print off the linen. Had your people run it through the database.
Yeah, Alexander Wheaton.
It's our favorite Canadian forensic podiatrist.
Right? All right.
Wow!
Check this out.
It's definitely not in here.
Whoa!
His redcoat uniform is the real deal.
There's probably still some trace in the vials.
General William Howe.
Well, we recovered the remains from the garbage.
Well... there's so many chemicals in this dump, It's gonna take a while to figure out what the original solution was.
Dude.
Sorry, I’m going to be biking the Virginia Creeper Trail.
What do you think?
Oh, don’t, don’t do that, the whole "answer a question with a question" thing.
Because ANGELA and I were engaged. And now she’s with a woman. It matters because... what? It just matters.
Stop asking me questions.
Okay, that’s it, I’m out of here.
What? What, are you kidding? Because the message I got, that could not be correct.
Wow, is that what you really look like?
Uh, Dr. Saroyan? Um...two people, they, uh, they go away together and they pack one bag, that, that means something, right?
What’s going on with her fingernails?
False fingernails. ABS plastic and ethyl cyanoacrylate glue. Like torches.
So, did ROXIE go to the retreat without you?
Right.
Like what? I know. Sorry.
Well, judging by the burn characteristics, some kind of thermoplastic, but what is that? Like something reflective.
Cool, and just, zap it to my computer?
Band-aid?
I’m not an expert, but I’m pretty sure even you can’t get a DNA result from a digital photograph.
Oh. Wow. Right, that’s kinda brilliant.
All right, well, mine’s sixty-two, so it’s a pretty big guy.
Look at the perforations. Vertical stretching along the pad.
It was locked, in a bent position.
Me too. We’re really good together. At these things.
Gotta ask you something, ANGELA.
This thing with ROXIE...
No, I get that. I see that. Is that what got between us?
But you can fall in love with a man.
And silicon melted into it as well.
It was a chip of some kind, a SIM card from a phone, a memory chip from a camera, but we need to see it to make a positive ID.
I found more papers in her bra.
Okay. Now we can determine if the little guy really *did* swallow the key, or if he has been falsely accused.
We were just- We verified that the baby did indeed swallow the key.
Cool. What do you think she meant by "a million"? Two?
I tested the ground bone for strontium.
Human beings absorb it through the consumption of local vegetation and water. Over time, the isotope collects in the bones, meaning-
The v*ctim was from northern West Virginia. Tucker County to be more precise.
Very sure. Particulate matter collected from the salvaged area of the car contained guano from a Corynorhinus townsendii virginianus.
This g*n is covered in a fine dust of particulate matter. It's going to take a while to id.
Really? To get blowback like that, somebody would have to have been sh*t point blank.
Wow, maybe our v*ctim sh*t somebody?
Yeah, you're right. Well, we'll soon know for sure.
I've identified the residue on the g*n's trigger. It's b*rned skin. The finger must've gotten caught and b*rned when the sh**t fired the g*n. Cam should be able to get some DNA.
Hi, Beautiful. Coming to visit?
What?
I'll admit: I only ever planned on one or two, but, if you want a million, I want a million.
Absolutely. I don't care if you're mushy and shapeless, puffy from constant hormonal fluctuations-I'll still find you sexy.
It's okay! I mean, when you get wider there'll be more of you to love. I think we should start right now. Why wait until we get married? There's no telling how long it's gonna be until you get your divorce.
Oh That's interesting.
Particulates from the g*n. Dust was composed of silica, sulphur compounds and synthetic rubbers.
The g*n was used at the tire recycling plant.
Whoa-ho-ho! Is that thing why they called us?
I'm good. Totally fine.
Uh, I'm gonna filter out that big stuff and indentify it, but it looks to me like it's... wood splinters.
Now, come on, your kindness is looking like pity.
In a manner of speaking, yeah.
Oh, man, my main experience with writers is Dr. Brennan, and she is not modest.
Oh, man, we cannot tell anyone.
Some kind of pattern.
Crystal meth is made from cold medicine, lye and the strike pads from matchbooks The body was not designed to deal with that kind of as*ault.
How about a stick to pry the monkey off your back?
The meth found in his lungs and nasal passages matches the meth that juiced Angela and the good doctor here .
Well, the space was too narrow for him to squeeze through. He got stuck, the bag broke, and when he gasped for air he inhaled and died instantaneously.
Judging from the acrid mites in his ears, I'd say six weeks.
Good news. I was able to pull some particulates.
Eyeballs? Yeah. Two types of foreign material in the eyes. Low density polyethylene residue and methamphetamine crystals.
It came from the plastic bag holding the meth.
Which would explain how the particulates got into the eye.
You may want the stooges at the FBI who are experts due to your so-called drug w*r, to run a comparison. But I'd say the methamphetamine on these bills matches the meth found with Deejay Mount behind the wall.
Yeah, I don't really think much about that kind of stuff. I'm more about bugs and minerals, sorry.
Maybe she was just using Mount, setting him up to get his drugs and money.
Yeah?
Real question is, where does she go next?
After she left her brother's place because that is where she met her untimely end.
No, no, no. Bugs and slime, dude. That is where I'm happy.
Insect activity confirm she died around the same time Deejay Mount did.
His girlfriend brought him a change of shirt.
How many times you want me to poke Zack?
Because you have arms like noodles, while I'm vigorous and burly.
Hey, the mark on Mount and the mark on Eve, they're the same.
What? Let them have all the glory?
Trent McNamara was a nasty piece of work, and that's his sister Stephanie.
So any particulates from the w*apon will be on the shirt as well as on the wounds.
Whoa...okay, okay, everybody move, or just, just freeze. Wow. Piophila casei. More commonly known as cheese skippers. Under certain circumstances, they jump up, they grab their butts with their mouths.
Yeah? They have them hopped up on stimulants? 'Cause that's what's causing this.
Really? Geez, how much did he weigh?
Really? This dude was shredded.
Yeah, I'm sure he lived joyously in the moment. Um, no, we're, we're really really happy that you, you didn't k*ll yourself.
Ephedra. Probably from energy drinks.
Yeah, the maggots ingested it from the tissue and it made them ravenous.
Now extrapolating the time it took for one gram sample of flesh to be devoured, the v*ctim died between 40 and 52 hours ago.
Basically, he looked and smelled great when he died.
Like a...plumbing pipe.
No, some kind of yellow polymer. Its possibly polyvinyl chloride or polytetrafluoroethylene.
Oh no. Uh, you okay?
Possibly. I don't want you to fall asleep again for another two months, Van Winkle.
I'm gonna figure out where this plastic is from. It might help Angela narrow down the m*rder w*apon
Well, they look pretty close.
Okay, both fragments were in the skull wound, but how did they get there if they weren't part of the same w*apon?
Yeah, alright, great, then what did we just find out?
Concrete. Uh, I'm just being precise. You know, cement is the ingredient in concrete that keeps everything kind of together?
Staphylinidae maturity puts time of death at approximately 26 days ago.
And the fact that it was to your home, not the lab. BRENNAN: No.
Yeah, and that's his sister Stephanie.
Look, Steph, I'm gonna take you into the other room, okay?
Exciting news.
Well, I think he'd be perfect, but... you're the boss. It's your decision to make.
Wow. Someone got their hands on a world-class incendiary device.
We don't know what happened, exactly.
You guys were right.
Ooh. Everything okay?
We also know that Jared Booth fell from a three-story structure.
Like what?
So then, the drug dealer didn't k*ll her.
What about justice?
So, you know what this means, right? ANGELA: What?
Here's our confirmation.
Hey.
So, any information from the microsil cast of the entry wound?
So these are from the notebook found in our v*ctim's windbreaker?
a*t*matic toilet scrubber, looks like those little vacuum cleaners that move around on their own.
Wow, our v*ctim was an inventor.
You said you didn't want to work with us anymore.
Wanna fly MiGs, you fly MiG alley right.
Coleoptera just started feeding on the Diptera larva meaning our v*ctim died about three days ago.
. Aren't you impressed that Angela and I can still work together so well? .
Paul Stegman had 66 inventions in his notebook and this one was marked with a star.
Yeah well, if the gears can handle it.
Yeah, it's a garbage sorter. And thanks to Clark it works.
Suitcase must have gotten knocked out of the shipping channel and come in with the tide this morning.
People say you only live once, but are as wrong about that, as they are about everything.
In the darkest moments before dawn a woman returns to her bed. What life is she leading? Is it the same life the woman was leading half an hour ago? A day ago? A year ago?
Who is this man? Do they lead separate lives, or is it a single life shared?
A storm approaches. A still over the horizon, but there is lightning in the air. Are either of them aware of the gathering turbulence? Can the feel the crackling of electricity in the wind? Or are they only aware of the power they generate between themselves?
The first hint of the storm is not a thunderclap. It is a knock.
She has never seen a dead body before.
He was in the Army and has seen too many.
Means nothing to me, a best selling pulp crap crime novelist. I trade in death daily. Theoretically. What liquor best exemplifies death by substance abuse?
Irish Whisky? 'Course, but which spirit best represents m*rder most foul?
Do you have a picture of the poor bastard who was m*rder?
Ooh!
This may was obviously a hired k*ll.
His hair, his suit, his ring. The fact that I talked to him last night. Here.
Gottcha. Yeah, right, none of us did. Very good. m*rder most foul.
My theory, it's the m*rder v*ctim g*n. Taken away from him by persons unknown, who sh*t him in the chest then hid it here, thinking that Vincent would find it, panic, and throw it away because he's, well, English.
No Vincent, no DJ. No DJ, no entertainment. You carpe your diem, bub.
Get the girl to smack the tambourine, and maybe you've got a sh*t.
Of course I don't mean Angela. You don't stand a chance with Angela. Her. Pansy, or Buttercup... SWEETS: Daisy?
The mysterious Persian real-estate mogul who's been trying to buy our home away from home. What various reasons does he have?
Boring.
Violent death. m*rder. It sends out shockwaves. The closer you are to it, the greater the shock.
Really?
You love someone, you open yourself up to suffering; that's the sad truth. Maybe they'll break your heart; maybe you'll break their heart and never be able to look at yourself in the same way. Those are the risks.
You see two people and think they belong together, but nothing happens,
That's the burden. Like wings, they have weight, we feel that weight on out backs, but they are a burden that lifts us. Burdens that-
Yeah, the rains revealed the remains.
Yeah, well, the females were pregnant.
Ooh. Whoa, ripe.
Look at you.
Okay, even if it is, the dye and the polyethylene in the paint would have destroyed the DNA.
If I freeze the paintball, I should be able to extract the gum without compromising the shape.
It's time, Dr. Brennan.
Who is he?
"National Security": catch-all phrase for "we can do anything we want"
I always imagined a lot of ex-girlfriends crying.
Silver screws as in...
As in..
It's Schrodinger's Cat.
I'll see if I can pull any mineral traces that can help us determine the water he used.
But, but not with teeth.
Zack found traces of polymethylmethacrylate monomer tetrasalisic floramicha on the mandible.
Main ingrediant is polymethyl methacrylic.
Could tell us a lot about Gormogon's resources.
Ready for the monomer?
Why don't you get the mold and I'll mix in the monomer?
Since when did I become the assistant?
I'm alright. I'm alright. I'm okay.
Hey. How are ya, Zack?
I'm okay, man.
But that doesn't make sense. There are no dipoles like amide or carbonyl in the monomer. Were there?
She's right. Hey. We're gonna figure this out, okay?
A simple monomer wouldn't explode. It just wouldn't happen.
Excuse me if my faith in the bureau isn't absolute.
I'm just getting my own results to double check. I'm sure he's - fine - but I'm independent.
Do I hear a little 'tude, young man?
You went on Larry King to talk about this case. And TMZ because you know how big it is and to get your piece of it.
Right. Oh, man. I should have known.
You expect me to tell you the answer, Agent Madison?
He's not bad.
The containers must have been switched. Zack thought he was adding a monomer he had made himself but it was actually a volatile expl*sive.
We don't know. I came down to see if the screws matched the silver in the skeleton and the skeleton was gone.
The door to the loading dock was unlocked.
Everything is working perfectly.
I thought it was the monomer.
Right. Sorry. So rumor is one of us is a suspect. Who is it?
Of course not. And since it's rumor, it might not even be true. Right?
I found something.
Zack said he thought the mandible had been boiled.
I pulled trace elements from the mandible and ran them through the mass spectrometer to see what the bone was boiled in. It was tap water. But see this spike here?
Yes.
They did, but individual homeowners didn't. I focused on neighborhoods with the highest lead levels. Older homes were the worst offenders This neighborhood matches the level of lead found on the v*ctim bone.
Yes. It is. But there are other people that live in the area too.
Good.
I could have fudged the facts. Could have left my neighborhood out.
If you need me, I'll be at my station. Helping.
How is Zack?
He's scared of polka dots but screaming agony is just an interesting phenomenon.
Oh, hey there, Zack.
Sometimes your friends gotta step in - Dumb it up for you.
What'll happen to Zack?
All those things I say about secret societies and conspiracy's, I never knew he was listening.
This is, uh, Zack's favorite stuff.
Yeah, thanks. He waved that in my face every day. Pocket Kama Sutra. I gave him this so he'd stop asking Booth sex questions.
Targeting everyday places causes panic. People stay home. The economy is crippled. It's Terrorism 101, man.
I will grab any particulates that I can identify the type of b*mb.
What you trust the FBI? You realize those guys are going to suppress whatever they need to cover their asses.
Are you even listening?
They have a separate division you know that way their hands are always clean. In 1970...
Someone seems really defensive about the FBI lately. You realize Booth is just another Government stooge.
Sure. So what do we do, group hug?
Don't touch the table. Don't touch the table.
Yeah but this is a crystalline structure, aluminum based.
I examined the chemicals used in the expl*sives. The perchlorates I found can have a degenerative effect.
I don't get it. How does his medical condition figure into the m*rder?
Yeah, I can manage it.
I graduated top of my class, Rhode Scholar, youngest member inducted into the Academy of Physical Sciences but she still makes me feel like a cretin.
We're negative for Lupus and Paget's. When you're done, I will do a scraping for environmental contaminates.
But she says she's not interested.
This looks like gypsum. That wouldn't cause any organic damage. It's probably used to insulate the expl*sives, bet the FBI doesn't know that yet.
I'm starting on a tox screen.
Yes, this is just for fun.
Maybe, a little. Yeah.
I knew that.
the marrow's degraded. I can give you basics but that's it.
She's spying for you?
But we do have the beetles.
They ate Hamid's flesh and whatever organs remained and we all know you are what we eat.
In Thailand, they are sautéed in peanut oil. Mmm.
Got it! They were poisoned by dioxin, a very pure form. It would stay in the system for years cause cancer, diabetes, heart attack, and the facial system bone degeneration we saw.
The insulation they used is gypsum based with plaster and lead mixed with asbestos.
So probably came from the building where the b*mb was constructed in.
Yeah?
Dioxin. That's how you would make it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ahhh, homemade device similar to the car b*mb that could be ...three to five hundred meters if the v*ctim weren't k*ll they'd develop cancer, blindness, lesions, diabetes..
I'm working on it.
He's cute, isn't he?
Nope.
We I.D.'d these remains.
Be patient.
He's just a rich, entitled athlete who's always gotten everything he's always wanted, and now he thinks he can get away with m*rder.
Ugh, it looks like leftovers from a sea critter buffet.
So, the fabric the v*ctim was wrapped in doesn't match the tarps on the fisherman's boats.
I look like Richard Dreyfus, don't I? "We're gonna need a bigger boat!"
Yeah, you know, sharks - they don't eat people.
Yeah, a really big, cool one.
You'd call it a face, Booth.
I think I know when it happened.
Meet deploria labyrinthiformis. Better known as the groovy grooved brain coral native to the Caribbean, Bermuda and Bahamas.
Coral skeletons accrete tiny crystals of calcium carbonate at night. So for us, this provides a timeline similar to tree rings. Coral can tell us what was in the water and when it got there.
No. That is the beauty. Because of the rapid nature of the growth, the timeline is condensed.
Within hours. Now, a spike in ammonia and nitrate levels found within the coral skeleton tells us that something died in that t*nk on Friday night between midnight and 6:00 a.m. Something big. Like human being big.
Look what I found in the filter from the aquarium. It's a five-inch piece of tanned putrescible animal raw hide.
From a wallet.
Yeah. Oh, wow. Oh, you should leave this up. It's beautiful. Peaceful. Pure.
I like scary.
Uh-huh.
Angelfish smoothie?
No. No, I did not. They died on their own. Only afterwards did I puree them.
Don't worry. The angelfish died from a generic organic protein-based neurotoxin that's found in lots of different yummy places - like the flagellum of bacteria.
I think they ingested it.
No. This neurotoxin's not strong enough to k*ll a fully grown human male.
Well, it'd be disorienting - as would any injection into the eye.
Oh, hey, Clark.
Feel I should warn you. Angela and Wendell; they broke up.
She may be on the market for a new intern.
Do what?
Oh. Snide is a strong word. Um... I, uh, I found this for you. It was in the vacuum.
Well, take it. It's all yours.
Clark.
Thank you for breaking your cardinal rule. I'll, uh, I'll take what you said under advisement.
This looks like your friendly neighborhood gill raker.
That? That would be your friendly neighborhood gum wrapper.
This is the Russian mobster who smuggles booze?
It's a fact that Russian "businessmen" add blue dye to t*nk of clear alcohol and import it as glass cleaner, thus avoiding the high tariff on booze. Now, once it gets to the States, they need to remove the dye so that they can bottle the booze as vodka. Only way to do that is from a reverse osmosis filter.
No, this one is special. It's really huge and extra good. See?
Hit him with the filter, Booth. That's your connection.
May I interest you in our final selections from the filter? Dorsal fin from a foxface rabbitfish. I believe this is some sort of sea turtle feces, a rusty paper clip and the broken spine of a lionfish. And that's all she wrote.
Well, that's not possible. How would those embryonic cells get into the t*nk? I mean, it's a closed system.
Dr. Brennan. You know what else is missing from this t*nk? Lionfish.
Well, the golf clubs aren't our m*rder w*apon.
Well, maybe it's not "George Orwell."
Yes.
Yeah, this is it, this is it.
Damn it.
Hey, Parker.
So, we don't know who k*ll her, and now we don't know what k*ll her?
You know, the only way to get them would be to go into the woods and track down the coywolves.
Wow.
Which is odd since it was all fiction that got us there in the first place.
Sure. I've been waitin' for the press to do that for three years now.
The v*ctim had lamb about an hour before his death.
Of course, it's a little overcooked now.
Big boys telling you to sweep this one under the rug?
Don't think so. Fabric found at the scene was cotton with synthetic polymers. Dye: olive green.
This dude was wearing a military uniform.
He's one of yours, not mine.
Marshall could've had a change of heart. It's not like support for the w*r is increasing.
Someone scrambled his brain, then set the fire so there'd be no tissue left to see what had been done.
So I'm not supposed to tell the truth?
There were no W.M.D.'s. That's the truth.
Are you defending what's going on over there?
Yeah! Like establishing military bases over there instead of investing a fraction of what this w*r costs into alternative energy projects.
To me it is! We're ruled by the corporate oligarchy. Face it.
Hey, where are you going?
Huh?
Oh, yeah. I thought we were having a good time.
I couldn't salvage much flesh from Marshall's ear but I'm sending anything useful up to Pathology, see if they can match anything with the DNA they pulled from Jimmy Martin's cigarette. Were you really mad before?
I'm guessing mad. Fair enough. Can I at least give you some material to read?
I'd better, uh, work on these scrapings for Zack.
I know we don't see eye to eye on a lot of stuff because you know, politically, I think we live in an Orwellian nightmare due to --
Just-- I'm sorry, man. I reall am.
Not yet. Just residual sesquioxide, in silico accumulation. A little decayed organic matter. Probably food that was on the floor. So--
Look, Angela. Look, I run on sometimes, I know. I guess I think if I yell loud enough, maybe someone will listen.
Got something. A splinter pattern. Particles of wood were blown back into one of the exit wounds from the AK-47s.
No. He was on the *floor*.
I hate to say conspiracy, but, my peeps, we've got a conspiracy.
This guy, rocking the naked noggin.
And if it works on this, it'll work on the rest of the bones.
Nice traditional church service, very ecumenical
Let's hope he got his invitation.
They were found in this case, probably belonged to the v*ctim.
and these are water samples teeming with organisms. I found an inordinately large amount of dead fairy shrimp in the mud beneath the v*ctim. I will not make a clap for Tinkerbell joke. How's about we not discuss child m*rder and our upcoming nuptials in the same conversation.
Do you want me to want you to change your name?
Zack ZACK: I really should have thought of that, a disease that prevents the sufferer from entering puberty, but simultaneously ages her otherwise.
I'd like to ask you to be my best man on Saturday.
At my wedding. Saturday. To Angela. My best man.
You have to think about it?
Zack...
Zack I'm getting married on Saturday, two short day's man, I need to know if you'll stand up for me.
I don't need a formal response, a simple yes... . Iraq? You can't go to Iraq.
No, the president has a machine to sign for him. He's probably talking to every forensic anthropologist in the country; you can't go to Iraq. No, you stay here and be my best man.
Zack, you're not going to Iraq. You going to be my best man or what?
Why?
Okay, big assumption there buddy.
Everything isn't rational.
Hey man will you stand up for me on Saturday?
No, no I mean be my best man?
Yeah I know, big honor.
No, no. No Bachelor party.
Stand there, make a toast, hand over the ring, tongue kiss the maid of honor at the reception when people clink glasses.
No idea, but most of Angela's friends are really hot.
Oh Angela's father, I forgot all about him.
In the mud sample taken from beneath the remains I found a high concentration of dead anostraca.
They aren't actually shrimp they're brachiopods, the difference is-
I wanna know if they can be poisoned by feeding on decomposing flesh.
Which has been injected with a number of organic poisons. We'd like to introduce a colony of Artemia Selena.
If they die, I'm gonna try running them through the spectrometer to see what poisoned them.
Because you said you'd fire us if we did any more experiments without your permission.
Release the hounds.
Pour in the Sea Chimps.
Yeah...
Rancinectla Lindali, also known as the fairy shrimp, not a true shrimp but a brachiopod.
Right, Zack and I did a brief experiment involving Sea Chimps.
Those Sea Chimps went after that pork by-product like piranhas after a skinny-dipping missionary.
Yeah. They were exposed to lethal amounts of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors.
Hey, I mean You get that a lot, right? The whole herr, herr, herr thing?
I'm Jack Hodgins
Well I suddenly realized, my best man said speeches at the wedding. You know about the wedding?
Well it occurred to me you might have a tradition, I mean you're Texan and I mean really Texan. Guitars and Hot rods Texan so I figured I should ask you for your daughter's hand in marriage. I mean as a sign of respect.
You mean marrying Angela?
Didn't think of that.
Okay, good advice. got anymore?
I - don't know what that means.
We'll uh, be right back.
Angela is already married?
No worries. No worries, we'll just um-we'll just - there's just a lot of people in there expecting a wedding.
I like it.
Change of plans, go directly to the reception, on us.
Do you want us to do something or just stand here and watch?
Look, there's no bugs on him, haven't been for over a thousand years.
Probably not.
We all know that you're going to say I'm unable to authenticate with confidence.
When you declare something authentic you run the risk of being proven wrong. That doesn't happen if you equivocate. As head of the Jeffersonian, Dr. Goodman will place the reputation of the institution over everything else.
With all due respect, you used to be an archeologist.
Do you actually need me here?
You know there's all the detritus from Brennan's Hollywood crime to sift through, Dr. Goodman: Six foot one, a big man for his time, feared by his foes, respected by his neighbors.
Encourage that much conjecture in Archeology, huh?
Oh please, now you're describing a scene from Lord of the Rings.
Yes, they correspond both with the time he lived and the geography in which he was found.
You mean like a written report?
He's a Pict, so what?
A Pict can't go for a walk?
It's a face. Maybe Angela got it wrong.
Zack screwed up the measurements.
This whole Pict business sounds like one of your stories.
Science is no country for storytellers baby.
I'm sending you a catalog of all the stuff they sent me. Soil samples, pollen, particulates, etcetera that were on the body parts. Nothing too surprising except for E glass fibers.
No, it's marine fiberglass. The v*ctim was on a boat shortly before she died. Also, look at this... a fingernail probably her own. I sent it to the FBI crime lab so they can run DNA tests. That's Zirconium by the way not a diamond. So I'm guessing she wasn't your top-drawer high-class prostitute.
Hey the old two on one special, classic.
How come I never get to go on these out of town trips?
You're unable to positively authenticate the skeleton.
Told you.
I knew this was going to happen!
Do you want my letter of resignation?
If you want me to resign, just say so.
So what are you doing? Still working on the m*rder w*apon?
I'm not being mean. I'm being critical of his process.
Goodman should be looking at the facts. Is the skeleton authentic or not? That's all. Instead it's all a mish mash of conjecture. What I think is that he's forgotten how to do the science and he doesn't want to admit that. Why a screwdriver?
That's what Brennan said about the jaw surgery thing.
I...I don't know I do bugs and silt but she said the words torsion and twist and cut.
pretend you're a person and say it.
You wanted to see me?
Are you willing to admit you bailed on the authentication?
Seriously?
You do know he has been dead for fifteen hundred years, right?
Or you could be totally rational and say you were waiting for imaging technology to improve to the point where it wasn't necessary to disassemble him.
There's definitely more, but it could be wrapped in something the radar can't get past.
Think I got something.
Bad news is, sodium hydroxide will eat up these remains.
Yes, but good news, vinegar neutralizes lye.
I'm sorry, because if I was here, I would have caught this earlier.
Hey, Cam got the DNA results from the feces in the wound.
You corrected them?
Oh, we just got lucky.
Oh man, I hope so.
It looks like a cop's notebook.
He k*ll an FBI Agent named Gus Harper.
Yeah. You know the case?
Oh wow. This means Delaney's m*rder has something to do with Marvin Beckett going to prison. Oh, when you're good, you're very, very good.
1970's. Ohio. There's a task force made up of FBI, state police and local cops. It goes bad. Starts taking a cut from the same bank robbers they're supposed to be catching. Well, then they conspire to plant a stack of stolen money on Marvin Beckett. Well, then this young Agent, right, Harper, okay. He decides he can't live with that and decides to blow the whistle.
The same guy who was gonna blow the whistle on them for framing Marvin Beckett, then gets m*rder by Marvin Beckett? Come on. Talk about k*ll two birds with one stone.
Us and you. That's it.
I've seen this movie. I get k*ll on the way home.
You serious?
Copper, lead, polymer. This is a conspiracy, baby.
Dude. What you call being a 'conspiracy theorist', I call being well informed.
Truth hurts, dude. Learn from it and grow.
Zack's Doctorate.
Visit.
Look at you...all grown up.
Do me a favor, Uriah, I need a little time to adjust to your fascist haircut Let's go.
